Associate Professor in Luxembourg literature
           University of Luxembourg  The University is a multilingual, international research University.  The University of Luxembourg is recruiting for the Faculty of Language and Literature, Humanities, Arts and Educational Science (FLSHASE) an Associate Professor in Luxembourg literature (m/f) F3- 130002 Full-time contract Employee status  Mission Within the Department for Luxembourgish languages and literatures of the research unit IPSE, the jobholder will conduct research on literature and culture predominantly of the pluricultural and multilingual society of Luxembourg, comprising the following domains:  - Analysis of Luxembourg literatures in Luxembourgish, French and German (and eventually other languages) - Literature and culture in the Luxembourg context in a comparative perspective - Literature in a multicultural and multilingual context - History of Luxembourg literature and culture in the terms of intercultural relations and international influences - Migration and literature  The candidate will participate also in other interdisciplinary research projects in the IPSE research unit as well as in the research program &quot,Études luxembourgeoises&quot,.  The jobholder will have teaching obligations in the: - Master Langues, Cultures et Médias   - Formation continue &quot,Lëtzebuerger Sprooch a Kultur&quot,      - Bachelor en Cultures Européennes.  Profile:   - PhD in literature, preferably in comparative literature - At least three years of PostDoc experience in the field of comparative and/or Luxembourg literature - An excellent publication record in peer-reviewed journals and books - Teaching experience on Bachelor and Master level - A strong commitment to interdisciplinarity - Ability to work in a multilingual environment  Languages required: Being multilingual is a prerequisite for the working environment at the University of Luxembourg as well as for the research program of this post. Good competencies in Luxembourgish are necessary for this post. If applicable, the jobholder will have to acquire sufficient knowledge in Luxembourgish within two years’ time.  Furthermore, the candidate is expected to be highly proficient in at least two of the following languages: French, German and English and to have acquired at least a passive understanding of the third within two years.  Contact: Prof. Dr. Peter Gilles Tel +352-466644-6383  Applications Candidates are asked to send a hard copy by postal mail and an electronic copy of their full application (in French, German or English) by 4 March 2013 mentioning the job opening reference number and including the following documents: - cover letter, - curriculum vitae, - copies of diplomas, - list of publications, - copies of recent publications relevant for the field in question, - list of courses taught.  to: University of Luxembourg Dean’s office of the Faculty of Language and Literature, Humanities, Arts and Education Campus Walferdange BP. 2 L - 7201 Walferdange Grand-Duché de Luxembourg  Email: flshase-recrutement@uni.lu  All applications will be handled in the strictest confidence.  Further Information As part of the application process specifically for academic positions, you are not obliged to enter your personal data online.  The University of Luxembourg is an equal opportunities employer. E-Mail: flshase-recrutement@uni.lu     