CFP: Graduiertentagung Literaturwissenschaften: Just Imagine! - Explorations into Imagination
           Just Imagine! - Explorations into Imagination  Postgraduate Conference, 24.06. - 26.06.2011  Anglistik I Department of Medieval English Studies and Historical Linguistics Heinrich-Heine-Universität, Düsseldorf, Germany  When we think about ‘the imagination’ as a concept, most of us call to mind artists, writers, designers and indeed, all of those men and women whose professions require a creative imagination. Max Weber, however, argues that imagination with its ‘frenzy’ and ‘inspiration’ constitutes an integral part of academic research.  While we certainly encourage participants to submit papers dealing with the meta-theoretical aspect of this statement, our primary goal is to approach this subject internally from within a range of academic disciplines. An historical perspective, for example, could encompass the role of imagination in medieval curative treatments by means of comparison between Bald’s “Leechbook” and modern medicine. From a linguistic perspective one could investigate the relevance of imagination in connection to the concepts of signifier and signified and indeed, a wider consideration of the perception of signs, this offers a transition into the disciplines of cultural, media and social studies. Questions raised here might involve asking how the human imagination is sparked and manipulated by the advertising and entertainment industry, for example.  We intend to bring together the different departments of English and American studies and highlight potential connections and chasms between these similar yet different perspectives on literature. The title &quot,Just Imagine! - Explorations into Imagination&quot,, however, has been left purposefully broad to allow for an interdisciplinary discussion. We wish to raise questions such as: how does imagination function in different academic fields? In other words, to what extent is imagination also a necessary starting point or inspiration in academia, which by its very definition is grounded in scientific research and analysis rather than in abstract concepts of the imagination and inspiration?  We encourage Master and PhD students of all academic fields, who are interested in the concept of ‘imagination’ to participate in what promises to be an exciting exchange of ideas. The conference should also help build a national and international community of post-graduate scholars who are interested in building platforms from which to discuss issues from an interdisciplinary perspective.  General Information: – Individual speakers are to submit their abstracts (200 –300 words) by 30.05.11 to riad.nassar@uni-duesseldorf.de – EXTENSION OF ENTRY DEADLINE! – – Presentations should not exceed 15 - 20 minutes – The conference will be organized into panels, consisting of 3 presentations each, allowing a moderated Q&amp,A section – Presenters should note when submitting that the conference proceedings will be published. Those interested in developing their presentation for publication should indicate this in their application – The conference language is restricted to English      