Associate professorship (alternatively, assistant professorship) in Brazilian studies – University of Copenhagen, Denmark
           The Department of English, Germanic and Romance Studies, Faculty of Humanities, the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, invites applications for an associate or assistant professorship in Portuguese with a focus on Brazilian studies to be filled by the 1st of April, 2013, or as soon as possible thereafter.  The successful applicant must document research in Brazilian studies with a focus on one or more of the following areas of research: history, social studies, cultural studies and literary studies.  The undergraduate and graduate programs in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies are located within the Department of English, Germanic and Romance Studies, which currently employs approximately 150 members of staff. The department teaches and conducts research into language and linguistics, history, literature and society in Western Europe, Latin America, Australia, the USA, Canada and parts of Africa. We offer a dynamic environment with a high level of personal interaction and a wide range of tasks.  Job content The undergraduate program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies is being restructured and will reopen in September 2013. The new program takes an interdisciplinary approach to the study of the Portuguese-speaking world, integrating theories and methods from the humanities and social sciences, so as to provide a broad analytical base for tackling real-world problems and communicating results effectively. In fact, nearly half of the undergraduate courses in the major will be taught using a problem-based perspective, so the successful applicant will be expected to use this method in specific courses.  The B.A. program additionally includes courses which focus on the Portuguese-speaking world as a whole. Thus, the successful applicant must be able to teach and supervise broadly in the subjects at this level. Furthermore, he/she will be expected to contribute to the restructuring and development of the M.A. program in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies.  The department also houses the Center for Latin American Studies, whose purpose is to foster collaboration between researchers working within the areas of Latin American history, sociology, politics, anthropology, language and linguistics, and literary studies. The successful applicant will be expected to make significant contributions to the center, both in teaching and research.  The position is open to applicants at both the associate and assistant professor levels. An applicant who successfully meets the criteria for an associate professorship will be at an advantage.  An associate professorship is a permanent position. The associate professor is expected to be able to take part in all the activities of the Department, including examinations and administration and also manage research projects, provide pedagogic supervision, supervise assistant professors and sit on academic assessment panels.  An assistant professorship is a three-year, fixed-term academic position involving research and teaching. The person appointed to the post will be obliged to complete a course in university teaching devised especially for assistant professors, and is expected to be able to take part in all the activities of the Department, including examinations and administration. At the end of the three-year period, provided the appropriate funding is secured, a post of associate professor will be advertised for which the assistant professor may apply.  The selection criteria are set out below under the qualification requirements. Potential applicants are welcome to contact the program coordinator for information regarding the new curriculum and additional information about the position: Associate Professor Sandi Michele de Oliveira, smo@hum.ku.dk. General enquiries may also be submitted to acting Head of Department, Dorte Albrechtsen (doralbr@hum.ku.dk ).  Qualification requirements The ideal candidate: ? Has a PhD focusing on Brazilian society or culture ? Has native or near-native fluency in Portuguese ? Has a strong publication record focused on Brazil ? Has a record in attracting external research funds and/or working on research teams ? Is able to teach BA-level courses which incorporate knowledge of other areas of the Portuguese-speaking world ? Is able to teach courses which are cross-disciplinary in nature ? Has experience in problem-based learning/teaching and in team-teaching ? Is able to teach first-year classes in either Danish or English ? Has had administrative experience at the university level  Applicants whose PhD research centered on another area of the Portuguese-speaking world may be judged qualified for this position, if they present academic publications on topics of contemporary Brazilian society and/or culture as well as a research plan covering the next three years which includes substantive work on Brazil.  Applicants must document complete fluency in written and spoken Portuguese. Knowledge of the other languages taught at the department will be an advantage, as the successful applicant will be encouraged to take part in interdisciplinary collaboration in the department. Concerning English, see paragraph below.  In order to be able to take part in daily communication and administrative duties at the department, non-Danish speakers must acquire the necessary Danish language skills within a maximum of two years. In order to function in the department until these qualifications are acquired, good English language skills in speech and writing are expected and should be documented.  When appointing a candidate to the post as associate professor, we stress that the applicant must have research and teaching qualifications corresponding to what can be achieved as part of a successful employment as an assistant professor. With regard to the post as assistant professor, we stress that the applicant must have a Ph.D.-degree or its equivalent within the area advertised. Furthermore, applicants who have teaching experience at university level will be at an advantage.  The following professional qualifications and personal competences are furthermore required: ? Research qualifications, which will be assessed in relation to the period of active research and the degree of originality and production ? The applicant?s scientific record, academic breadth and depth, rigour, thoroughness and accuracy as well as academic relevance in relation to the advertisement for the position ? Documented teaching qualifications ? Documented administrative qualifications ? Research management (only relevant for the position as associate professor) ? Participation in networks - national and international  For further details about the qualification requirements, please refer to Circular no. 9427 of 13 June 2007 concerning the job structure for academic staff www.ubst.dk/lovgivning/personalejura-medarbejdere/ny_stillingsstruktur_eng.pdf.  Application In the application, applicants must clearly indicate whether they apply for the assistant professorship or the associate professorship.  The application must be submitted online in Adobe PDF or Word format. Please note that each field in the application form may only contain a single file of max. 20Mb.  Please click on the &quot,Apply online&quot, icon at the bottom of the page.  The application must be written in English and include the following enclosures: Application letter/cover letter Appendix 1: CV Appendix 2: Documentation of qualifications (examination certificates/PhD diploma, etc.) Appendix 3: Complete and numbered list of publications. The enclosed publications must be marked with * Appendix 4: Research plan, including a short description of previous research and a plan for the coming years that includes an account of involvement in organising research, establishment of research seminars, symposia and congresses etc. Appendix 5: Documentation of teaching qualifications and research dissemination (organisation of classes, materials, courses and other forms of teaching). Appendix 6: Publications. Applicants for the associate professorship may submit a maximum of five publications for assessment, of which at least three must have been published within the five years immediately preceding the deadline for applications. Publication dates must be clearly marked on the publication list. The publications selected must be uploaded as attachments and listed from 1 to 5.  Applicants for assistant the professorship may submit a maximum of three publications for assessment, of which at least two must have been published within the five years immediately preceding the deadline for applications. Publication dates must be clearly marked on the publication list. The publications selected must be uploaded as attachments and listed from 1 to 3.  The application letter and CV must be in English. Only publications and supplemental material written in Portuguese, English, German, French, Danish, Norwegian or Swedish can be expected to be assessed.  All material will be shredded at the end of the appointment procedure.  Appointment procedure After the application deadline, the Dean will set up an expert assessment committee to evaluate applicants specifically in relation to the advertised position. The applicants will be informed about the composition of the committee, and each candidate will have the opportunity to comment on the part of the assessment relating to themselves before the appointment is finalised. Please refer to ministerial order no. 284 of 25 April 2008 concerning the appointment of academic staff at universities ministerial order www.ku.dk/regel/2/2031.html  Applicants will be regularly informed about the progress of the procedure by e-mail. Further information about the procedure is available from HR and Personnel Officer Mette Christensen, tel.: +45 35 32 80 87 or e-mail: mec@hum.ku.dk.   Please quote reference number 211-0549/12-4550 in your application.  Founded in 1479, the University of Copenhagen is the oldest university in Denmark. With 37,000 students and 9,000 employees, it is among the largest universities in Scandinavia and one of the highest ranking in Europe. The University consists of six faculties, which cover Health and Medical Sciences, Humanities, Law, Science, Social Sciences and Theology.     