Associate or assistant professor in Portuguese
           The Department of English, Germanic and Romance Studies, Faculty of Humanities, Copenhagen University, Denmark, invites applications for an   associate or assistant professorship in Portuguese   with a focus on Brazilian Studies to be filled by 1st of May, 2012, or as soon as possible thereafter.  The successful applicant must document research in modern cultural and social studies of the Portuguese-speaking world.  The Department of English, Germanic and Romance Studies teaches and conducts research into language, literature and society in Western Europe, Australia, the USA, Canada, Latin America and parts of Africa. The Department is a dynamic environment with a high level of personal interaction and a wide range of functions. It currently employs approx.150 members of staff.  Job content An assistant professorship is a three-year, fixed-term academic position involving research and teaching. The person appointed to the post will be obliged to complete a course in university teaching devised especially for assistant professors, and is expected to be able to take part in all the activities of the Department, including examinations and administration. At the end of the three-year period, provided the appropriate funding is secured, a post of associate professor will be advertised for which the assistant professor may apply.  An associate professorship is a permanent position. The associate professor is expected to be able to take part in all the activities of the Department, including examinations and administration and also manage research projects, provide pedagogic supervision, supervise assistant professors and sit on academic assessment panels.  The position involves research, teaching, supervision, communication and administrative duties.  In addition to teaching at the MA level, the successful applicant must be able to teach and supervise broadly in the subjects at the BA level of the department´s Portuguese degree. Furthermore, through their research, applicants are expected to contribute to the development of the degree programme and to the department´s Latin American profile. Since the Portuguese degree programme at the University of Copenhagen is in the process of expanding, the successful applicant must take on administrative tasks and be able to contribute to academic development in collaboration with colleagues within as well as outside the department. Furthermore, the successful candidate will be expected to make a significant contribution to the department´s Centre for Latin American Studies.  The successful applicant must be well-versed in cultural and societal issues within the Portuguese-speaking world and must be able to relate to a multidisciplinary research and teaching perspective.  Applicants with previous experience from collective research projects and from working in an interdisciplinary environment will be at an advantage, as will applicants who have a background in tutoring student projects involving external agents.  Applicants must document complete fluency in written and spoken Portuguese. Knowledge of the other languages taught at the department will be an advantage, as the successful applicant will be encouraged to take part in interdisciplinary collaboration in the department.  In order to be able to take part in daily communication and administrative duties at the department, non-Danish speakers must acquire the necessary Danish language skills within a maximum of two years. In order to function in the department until these qualifications are acquired, non-Danish speakers must document good English language skills in speech and writing.     