CfP: Conference announcement and CfP 4th International Adriatic-Ionian Conference ACROSS LANGUAGES AND CULTURES
           Call for Papers  The international conference committee welcomes contributions dealing with various aspects of developing intercultural and linguistic competence and covering a wide range of communication related themes such as:  · Intercultural education. Cultural identity and globalization. Language learners and intercultural communication. Intercultural communicative competence and foreign language teaching. Teacher training to intercultural sensitivisation. Intercultural competence across the curriculum.  · Literature in an intercultural perspective. Cultural awareness and the use of the media.  · Intercultural communicative competence in lingua franca. Intercultural aspect of translation. Intercultural communication and communication accommodation. Translation theory and multilingualism. Multiligualism and plurilingualism.  · Research and methodology in intercultural communication studies. Cross-cultural approach, intercultural approach, transcultural perspective.  · Cultural awareness at the workplace. Intercultural business communication. Intercultural academic communication. Language and cultural diversity in a globalized world. Intercultural communication as global competence.  · Critical awareness in an intercultural setting. Intercultural citizenship and education to active citizenship.  Proposals for papers, posters and workshops in presenting all the areas listed above are welcome. Paper and poster proposals should not have been previously published. Each author may submit no more than one individual and one coauthored abstract. All submissions will be reviewed anonymously by the scientific committee and evaluated in terms of originality, clarity, and significance of findings and conclusions. To attend the conference or to present a paper please fill in the registration form and pay the registration fee. Only articles presented by the authors at the conference will be considered for publication in the conference proceedings.  The official languages of the conference are English, Italian or French. We expect talks to be held in one of these languages, but cannot provide translation services.  Guidelines for submissions: Please send your abstract in English, limiting the text to a maximum of 300 words, Times New Roman 12 (including references and titles) to the following e-mail address: across.languages.and.cultures@gmail.com. Download the Abstract Proposal for a template.  The abstract ought to include the following information in this order: - title of the paper, - name of the author, - institutional affiliation, - type of presentation intended, - the language (English, Italian or French) in which the talk will be delivered, - thematic area and/or 5 key words, - first author's email address, institutional postal address, - the abstract (max 300 words).  Deadline for submission of abstracts: May 15th , 2011 Notification of acceptance: June 15th, 2011  Presentation format: Papers and workshops will be held concurrently in parallel sessions. Papers will be allocated 20 minutes - 15 minutes for presentation and 5 for discussion. Workshops will be allocated 40 minutes. Posters are intended as a format for work-in-progress reports.  Registration For registration and hotel bookings please refer to our webpage: www.teoriacomunicazione.it , congressi e seminari or alc.unive.teoriacomunicazione.it  Registration fee: 80 Euro (early-bird registration before June 15st, 2011) Full registration fee: 150 Euro (after June 15st, 2011)  For any further questions please contacts us at epava@unive.it neva.cebron@fhs.upr.si ferron@unive.it across.languages.and.cultures@gmail.com and the conference staff will do their best to assist you.     