5 research positions, Zukunftskolleg Konstanz
           The University of Konstanz  The University of Konstanz is one of nine top-level universities identified by the Excellence Initiative in Germany. The Zukunftskolleg is a central scientific institution of the University of Konstanz for the promotion of young scientists in the natural sciences, humanities, and social sciences and is an integral component of the institutional strategy &quot,Modell Konstanz - towards a culture of creativity&quot,. The Zukunftskolleg forms a platform for interdisciplinary discourse between excellent researchers in Germany and abroad and provides young scientists with resources for obtaining third party funding.  The Zukunftskolleg of the University of Konstanz offers  5 research positions (salary bracket 14 or 15 TV-L)  for the development and implementation of individual research projects/research groups. The initial appointments will commence on October 1,2008 and end on March 31, 2010. An extension for an additional 3.5 years is foreseen, provided that external third party funding has been granted.  The Zukunftskolleg provides a professional infrastructure and an appropriate workplace for conducting research. A pool for funding cooperative projects, research assistants, research trips and the acquisition of equipment is available. Additionally, fellows may nominate recognized experts in their field of research as senior fellows, who will be invited to Konstanz for a period of 3-12 months and who, in addition to their research work and involvement in cooperative projects, will advise young scientists belonging to the Zukunftskolleg.  The prerequisites for acceptance are a doctoral degree and outstanding scientific experience in teaching or research and a strong interest in interdisciplinary topics are desirable. Each fellow is a member of both a department of the university and the Zukunftskolleg. Involvement in teaching is possible. The foreseen topical connection of the project to the research profile of the University of Konstanz should be demonstrated in the project outline. Active participation in the regular weekly meetings of the Zukunftskolleg as well as residence in Konstanz is expected.  The selection of the fellows will be made on the basis of the project outlines and a two-day workshop to be held on September 1 - 2, 2008 at the University of Konstanz.  Information about the fellowships and additional opportunities for participation in the Zukunftskolleg can be found on our website: www.uni-konst.anz.de/zukunftskolleg  The full version of this announcement is available at: www.uni-konstanz.de/stellen  Applicants should send their application form (see www.uni-konstanz.de/ zukunftskolleg), their project outline (maximum length 6 pages), a letter of motivation (one page), application documents (curriculum vitae, publication list, and degree certificates) and a reading excerpt (maximum length 20 pages) as PDF file to: zukunftskolleg@uni-konstanz.de      