Associate Lecturer in Spanish Language
           Associate Lecturer in Spanish Language University of Wollongong - Faculty of Arts  New South Wales, Australia      * Faculty of Arts      * Language Centre      * 3 year fixed term, teaching focussed appointment   The Faculty of Arts continues to experience a phase of growth and transformation. All our major teaching areas have been or are being reviewed to ensure an up-to-date and internationally-oriented curriculum closely articulated to the Faculty's research strengths. The Faculty is medium-sized and dynamic with a focus on high quality teaching programs, high impact interdisciplinary research and national and international leadership in all its activities.  We are seeking to appoint a full-time lecturer for a 3 year fixed term position to undertake the practical teaching of Spanish language. The successful applicant will be required to teach into the Spanish major as well as coordinate a range of subjects in Spanish language and Spanish/Hispanic Studies. The successful candidate will be required to teach into the Spanish major as well as coordinate a range of subjects in Spanish language and Spanish/Hispanic Studies. This position is teaching focussed and a teaching load of about 14 hours per week over the academic year will be required.  The successful candidate will be expected to undertake some research on teaching related topics such as language pedagogy, second language acquisition, technology enhanced language learning (TELL) or Hispanic Studies and have near-native competency in both English and Spanish, completed a higher degree in a relevant discipline, and have proficiency with TELL. You will also be able to demonstrate a successful track record of teaching Spanish language at the tertiary level.  Candidates must address the selection criteria as outlined in the relevant position description which is located on the University website. For further information please contact Professor Kerry Dunne, Director, Arts Language Centre, kdunne@uow.edu.au  Applications Close 7 August 2011 Quote Ref No 23978 How to Apply: Please go to our website employment.uow.edu.au to submit your application online &amp, for more information about the position and UOW.  Summary: A great opportunity to join the Faculty of Arts, Language Centre. The Faculty is dynamic with a focus on high quality teaching programs.      