20 Doctoral Research scholarships, NUI Galway
           The College of Arts, Social Sciences, and Celtic Studies at NUI  Galway offers 20 postgraduate Scholarships to support full-time PhD  research within the structured PhD programmes of the College,  commencing in September 2011.  Scholarships will be awarded in line  with the strategic research priorities of the 6 Schools of the  College, namely: Education, Geography and Archaeology, Humanities,  Languages, Literatures and Cultures, Political Science and Sociology,  Psychology. Scholarships may thus be awarded across any of the  following associated disciplines: Education, Geography, Archaeology,  English, Film Studies, History, Irish Studies, Philosophy, Classics,  French, Gaeilge, German, Italian, Spanish, Political Science and  Sociology, Women’s Studies, Psychology.  In the field of German Studies applications in the following research  areas are particularly welcome: German Literature from the 18th to  the 21st centuries, literature and dream, Ecocriticism, literary  representations of family, cultural relationships between Germany and  Ireland.  The duration of the structured PhD programmes of the College is four years.  The maximum value of the Scholarship award for 2011/2012 will be  €15,000, inclusive of stipend and fees.  Scholarship holders whose  fees are paid by an external funding body (e.g. a Local Authority)  will receive their stipend minus the fee amount.  Applications may be completed either in English or Irish.  Application forms and terms and conditions may be downloaded from www.nuigalway.ie/arts/scholarships.html. The Terms and Conditions, Application Form and Referee’s Form are the  sole sources of information.  Applications must be submitted in two formats: one paper copy, and  one electronic.  A complete application must include each of the following items:  a.	Completed application form (1 paper submission, 1 electronic submission) b.	Sample of academic work of not more than 2,500 words: E.g. essay,  book review, critique, selected portion of a larger work (1 paper  submission, 1 electronic submission) c.	Referee’s form: The completed Report Form of one academic referee,  an established academic who is familiar with the academic achievement  of the applicant (2 copies, comprising the signed original and a  copy, to be provided in a single sealed envelope, signed across the  seal by the Referee) (1 paper submission)  Applications should be addressed to:  Ms. Mairéad Faherty Room 340, College of Arts, Social Sciences, and  Celtic Studies Arts Millennium Building NUI Galway.  The completed paper application should be returned by letter post,  postmarked before 17.00 hours (GMT), Friday, 3rd June, 2011. The completed electronic copy of the application should be emailed  (as file attachments) to: arts.scholarships@nuigalway.ie before 17.00  hours (GMT), Friday, 3rd June, 2011.      