Early stage researcher (PhD student) in the field of the Ecology of Languages
           The early stage researcher/PhD student will be a member of the LCMI research unit (Language, Culture, Media, Identities). The multidisciplinary research unit aims at developing a deeper understanding of how educational institutions reflect the linguistic and cultural practices of their social environment. More specifically, the candidate will study some aspects linked to the plurilingual practices of our officially trilingual university. He/she will work under the tutelage of Professor Jean-Jacques Weber and Associate Professor Sabine Ehrhart and will complete his/her academic education with the aim of obtaining a PhD.  Activities: Preparation of scientific publications and orientation papers in the field of institutional language policy, in cooperation with the research unit.  Contribution to teaching in close cooperation with the university team.  Organisation and management of conferences and other scientific and educational events in Luxembourg as part of his/her professional training as well as participation in national and international workshops and conferences.  Profile: The successful candidate has a Master (or equivalent) in linguistics, education, or a related domain. He/she will develop research in one of the following areas: ecology of plurilingual spaces, institutional multilingualism, organisation of multilingualism in the workplace, integrated language learning and teaching, translanguaging strategies in communication, language acquisition and language learning in higher education and professional contexts.  The candidate should be familiar with aspects of one or more of the following frameworks: language ecology, study of languages in contact, ethnolinguistics, second language acquisition, plurilingual didactics, applied sociolinguistics (especially language awareness and empowerment). The successful candidate will also be willing and able to engage in ethnographic fieldwork (participating observation of interaction in multilingual and multicultural environments, transcription and analysis of audiovisual recordings, creation and interpretation of questionnaires).  As the candidate has to integrate into a multilingual research team, she/he will have a good or excellent command of German, French and English (written and spoken, two of the three languages are essential and the third is highly desirable) and the willingness to learn Luxembourgish.      