Graduiertenprogramm (MA und PhD) "Intercultural Humanities" an der Jacobs University Bremen
           The Graduate Program (MA and PhD) Intercultural Humanities at Jacobs University Bremen is a unique and innovative combined graduate program in History, History and Theory of Art, and Literature with a special emphasis on intercultural encounters, cross-cultural transfers, cultural comparison, and transcultural universals. The program provides students with insights into the theories and methods used to investigate and describe inter- and transcultural processes and phenomena. Students become acquainted with the particularities of research in History, History and Theory of Art, and Literature as well as with interdisciplinary approaches applied in intercultural studies in the humanities. By studying exemplary cases of intercultural encounters, cross-cultural transfers and transcultural universals students learn how these theories and methods are applied in each of the fields and, in a second step, across the fields.   The program addresses intercultural and transcultural issues such as:  - Why do authors write multilingual poems?  - Which traces of colonialism can be found in the life of an Indian student today?  - How are cultural conflicts reflected in aesthetics?  - How did globalization start in China?  - How does the global arts market affect the work of an artist in Cameroon?  - What cultures regard violence as being beautiful?  - How can cultural theories be applied to the intercultural interaction on the campus of an international university?   Jacobs University Bremen offers excellent conditions for teaching and research. Its official language of is English. Faculty teaching in the graduate program pursue a wide range of research interests, including American, European, and Asian histories, literatures, art and cultures. As Jacobs University students come from over 90 countries around the world, intercultural knowledge and intercultural exchange is not simply a matter of theory but is experienced on a day-to-day basis.   The program includes courses such as:  Theoretical Foundations and Methods in Intercultural Humanities  - Concepts of Historical Research and History-Writing beyond the Nation-State  - Literary Theory and Intercultural Approaches  - Intercultural Approaches in Art History and Visual Theory  - Advanced Qualitative Methods  Historical Perspectives on Inter- and Transcultural Phenomena  - Crossing Cultures: Transfers and Comparisons in Modern History  - Literary History in Inter- and Transcultural Contexts  Intercultural Issues in the Contemporary World  - Globalization in a Historical Perspective: Culture and Society  - Migration, Globalization, Multilinguism and Literary Taxonomies  - Visual Communication  - Transnational Communication   Scholarships for PhD students are available. Successful MA and PhD applicants may receive a tuition waiver. Deadline for applications in the first round is Feb 1, and for the second round is 1 May 2010.   For further information, program flyers and the program handbook please visit our website at www.jacobs-university.de/maih/ or contact the program coordinators Prof. Dr. Immacolata Amodeo (i.amodeo@jacobs-university.de) and Prof. Dr. Jürgen Trabant (j.trabant @jacobs-university.de).      