Law and Literature. Possibilities and Boundaries of Inter- and Transdisciplinarity
           Grazer Forschungskolloquien zur Allgemeinen und Vergleichenden Literaturwissenschaft/ Graz Research Colloquiums  on General and Comparative Literature  Centre for Cultural Studies Department of Legal Philosophy, Sociology of Law, and Legal Informatics Department of Romance Languages  Law and Literature. Possibilities and Boundaries of Inter- and Transdisciplinarity International Symposium University of Graz, Wall Zentrum, Merangasse 70, Mehrzwecksaal (Ground Floor) November 29 &amp,amp,amp,amp,amp, 30, 2013  Literary studies as an intrinsically interdisciplinary field of study have been a referential science for other disciplines for quite some time. A number of aesthetic but also non-aesthetic disciplines have “used” or rather referred to literature and literary theory in order to open up new perspectives on their own disciplines and theoretical and methodological approaches. At the same time, literary studies have been increasingly interested in determining their own position and potential within the wider scientific community. This is the precondition for the appearance of an unprecedented number of interdisciplinary approaches over the last decades visible in several fields of research that essentially consist of two disciplines connected with the conjunction “and”: literature and medicine, literature and science, literature and history, literature and economics and law and literature. The intersection of law and literature, as well as legal and literary studies, is on this account a particularly dynamic field of research on many levels. The focus of this symposium are thus theoretical reflections aimed at investigating the possibilities of inter- and transdisciplinary transfer of discipline-specific concepts and methods. The planned symposium focuses on the following theoretical considerations and conceptual historical questions:  Of interest is a critical reflection and meta-theoretical discussion of the theoretical and practical possibilities offered by inter- and transdisciplinarity in general. Alongside an analysis of the historically conditioned differentiation of modern scientific disciplines and aesthetic systems, the question is of interest as to the mode of the now current overlapping of legal and literary systems: what accounts for this connective “and”, and what are its features? In this context, there must be applied a concept of literary studies—compliant with interdisciplinary research—as a “science intermédiaire” (in Foucault’s sense), a notion that does justice to the “intermediary” moment of literary studies and with it an interdisciplinarity in the sense of reciprocal exchange, which challenges literary studies and its respective disciplinary counterpart in equal measure. This promotion of interdisciplinary, theoretical claims can be supported by a sensitivity to conceptual history in the sense of historical semantics and discourse history. The concerns here are: an analysis of semantic fields and discourses, interdisciplinary connections, transdisciplinary shifts, and the limits and possibilities of translation, questions of changing validity, applicability, and form, and problems of mediality and medial connections. Alongside these questions of methodological and conceptual transfer, it is of interest that both literary and legal studies are based on the study of texts. Literariness, self-reference, fiction, narration, and performance are some of the concepts to be more closely considered. In this line of inquiry, interest lies in the analysis and comparison of forms of argumentation and methods of justification in non-literary and literary texts, as well as the analysis of the use and effect of metaphors in the different fields of knowledge.  Finally, a general point of analysis is shaped by the fundamental question of the praxis and narrative determination of the respective text-forms. Here, beyond textual and conceptual questions, differences can be determined, which are contingent upon the different reception and narrative functions of literary and juridical texts. In the process, associated social, cultural, and political practices can be both identified and described.   Programme   FRIDAY, 29th of Nov.   9:00-10:00  Welcome by the Organizers and the City of Graz:  SUSANNE KNALLER/DORIS PICHLER (Forschungsbereich AVL, Centre for Cultural Studies, Department of Romance Philology), CHRISTIAN HIEBAUM (Department of Legal Philosophy, Sociology of Law, and Legal Informatics SIEGFRIED NAGL (Mayor of the City of Graz)   Conference Opening:  MARTIN POLASCHEK (Vice-Rector for Studies and Teaching University of Graz) DORIS PICHLER (University of Graz) Law and Literature:  A Successful Interdisciplinary Encounter?  10:00-10:15: Coffee Break   I) Interdisciplinary Encounters I  Chair: Susanne Knaller  10:15-11:05 GRETA OLSON (University of Gießen) Futures of Law and Literature - A Culturalist Perspective  11:05-11:55 JEANNE GAAKEER (Erasmus University Rotterdam) Futures of Law and Literature – A Jurist's Perspective   11:55-12:10: Coffee Break   II ) Law as Literature / Literature as Law  Chair: Doris Pichler  	12:10-13:00 PETER STRASSER (University of Graz) ”The Good, the Bad and the Ugly“. Krimi und Western als Schule des Rechtsempfindens   13:00-14:30 Lunch   14:30-15:20 ELKE LACKNER (University of Graz) Performanz und Fiktionalisierung von Recht. Die Hinrichtung als rechtliches, kulturelles und literarisches Ereignis  	15:20-16:10 PETER SCHNECK (University of Osnabrück) Paradoxical Properties and Perverse Relations: Law and Literature between the Disciplines  16:10 – 16:30 Coffee Break   III) Interdisciplinary Encounters II  Chair: Andrea Ploder  	16:30-17:20 DANIELA CARPI (University of Verona) Law ands...   SATURDAY, 30th of Nov.   IV) Between Law and Literature  Chair: Anita Prettenthaler-Ziegerhofer  9:00-09:50 CHRISTIAN HIEBAUM (University of Graz) Literatur, die verpflichtet. Zur Theorie des Rechtstextes und der juristischen Interpretation  09:50-10:40 GÜNTHER HÖFLER (University of Graz) Poetische Gerechtigkeit als Erwartungshorizont  10:40-11:00 Coffee Break   V) Interdisciplinary Transfer   Literary concepts  Chair: Evelyn Höbenreich  11:00-11:50 ELISABETH HOLZLEITHNER (University of Vienna) Fictions of Lawyering  11:50-12:40 CHRISTINE KÜNZEL (University of Hamburg) Imaginierte Fakten. Zur Bedeutung von Fiktion(en) in der richterlichen Urteilsbildung  12:40-14:00 Lunch   14:00-14:50 PETER DEUTSCHMANN (Paris-Lodron-University of Salzburg) Metaphor and Allegory in Historical Drama and International Law  Legal concepts Chair: Christian Hiebaum  	14:50-15:40 ANNE-KATHRIN REULECKE (University of Graz) Vom Sinn zur Spur. Autographen-Fälschungen auf der Grenze zwischen Philologie und Kriminalistik  15:40-16:00 Coffee Break  16:00-16:50 THOMAS WEITIN (University of Konstanz) Free Ground. Human dignity after Goethe's “Faust&quot,   	16:50-17:40 JOACHIM HARST (University of Bonn) Hórkos: Eid, Ehe und Verbindlichkeit in der “Odyssee“  _____   Kontakt und weitere Information:  University of Graz Centre for Cultural Studies/Department of Romance Philology T +43 (0)316/380-8089  Prof. Dr. Susanne Knaller/Dr. Doris Pichler susanne.knaller@uni-graz.at doris.pichler@uni-graz.at  Department of Legal Philosophy, Sociology of Law, and Legal Informatics  Prof. Dr. Christian Hiebaum christian.hiebaum@uni-graz.at      