CfP: PKP Scholarly Publishing Conference 2011, Berlin
           Freie Universität Berlin September 26, 2011 – September 28, 2011  The Public Knowledge Project is pleased to announce that, in partnership with the Freie Universität Berlin, the Third International PKP Scholarly Publishing Conference will be held from September 26 - 28, 2011 in Berlin, Germany.  This is the first time that the PKP Conference is being held outside of Vancouver, Canada, and we look forward to meeting more members of the international scholarly publishing community. Given that the landmark Budapest Open Access Initiative, launched in December 2001, will be celebrating its first decade, the conference invites explorations of the lessons to learn, successes achieved, and setbacks overcome in our shared attempts to increase and open access within scholarly publishing. The first and second PKP conferences brought together a remarkable array of presentations and participants from around the world, and we anticipate an equally valuable experience in 2011.  Proposals that address one or more of the following topics are especially encouraged:      * New reading and publishing technologies, e.g., integration of Web 2.0 features,     * Reports on national and regional open access policies and initiatives,     * Alternative publishing and funding models,     * National and international collaborative projects,     * New roles and partnerships for libraries, scholarly publishers, and others,     * Sustainability for open access publishing and open source software.  The conference will consist of a mixture of plenary presentations, panel discussions, brief &quot,lightning talks,&quot, posters, workshops, a hackfest, an exhibitor hall, and parallel conference sessions in the following streams:      * Editors, publishers, and librarians     * Researchers and members of scholarly/scientific societies     * Software developers and system administrators     * Community/User groups  Parallel sessions will each be up to 20 minutes in length. Lightning Talks and &quot,Ask a Developer&quot, presentations are limited to 5 minutes each. Sessions may consist of a case study, a research report, a &quot,big idea&quot, in publishing, as well as other options.  Proposals (500 word maximum) should be submitted by March 15, 2011, using the submission guidelines and form available on our web site. All proposals will be subject to peer-review and you will be informed of a decision by June 1, 2011. Due to the strong interest in this year's conference, only a limited number of sessions will be accepted.  Web site: pkp.sfu.ca/ocs/pkp/index.php/pkp2011/pkp2011/schedConf/cfp  Contact: Nicolas Apostolopoulos, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany, napo@cedis.fu-berlin.de     