PhD funding in French Studies, University of Manchester
           The University of Manchester is offering a number of awards to which individuals wishing to work on PhD topics related to French Studies are encouraged to apply. French Studies at Manchester achieved one of the best scores for its field in the most recent Research Assessment Exercise. Our research is strongly interdisciplinary, and we run a thriving Centre for Research in the Visual Cultures of the French-Speaking World (CRIVCOF). PhD students at Manchester are supported by a dynamic research culture and excellent opportunities for research training (http://www.artsmethods.manchester.ac.uk/).  We offer expert PhD supervision across a wide range of areas, including:  - Medieval French and Anglo-Norman language and literature, text editing, manuscript studies (Dr Daron Burrows) - 19th-century French literature and painting (Dr Peter Cooke ) - Linguistics, pragmatics, semantics, variation/change, discourse/interaction, functional/cognitive linguistics (Prof Maj-Britt Mosegaard Hansen) - 19th-century French literature, exoticism in fiction, critical theory, Bernardin de Saint-Pierre, aspects of Enlightenment (Dr Vladimir Kapor) - French and francophone society and culture, particularly popular music (Dr Barbara Lebrun) - 20th- and 21st-century French and Francophone visual cultures, representations of ethnicity (Dr Joseph McGonagle) - Discourse markers, context construction, cohesion in discourse, biolinguistics, argumentation theory (Dr Thanh Nyan) - French popular culture and literature (1870 - present) (Dr Floriane Place-Verghnes) - Contemporary dance, qualitative audience studies, performance and critical theory, art and science (Prof Dee Reynolds) - 20th-century French literary and visual culture, post-war French philosophy, Holocaust culture and philosophy (Dr Ursula Tidd) - French cinema, representations of gender, sexuality and ethnicity and their reception (Dr Darren Waldron)  For further information on individual colleagues’ research interests and publications, visit: staffprofiles.humanities.manchester.ac.uk/StaffList.aspx.  The two main sources of funding, which comprise a fee-bursary and a maintenance grant, are AHRC awards and the University-funded President’s Doctoral Scholar Awards.   1. AHRC awards Awards from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) are competitive and provide payment of tuition fees and a maintenance stipend for UK students, and tuition fees (and a maintenance stipend, subject to eligibility criteria) for EU students. The closing date for AHRC applications is Friday 2 March 2012.  2.  President’s Doctoral Scholar Awards The University of Manchester has launched a new 2.5m investment in PhD training with the creation of the President’s Doctoral Scholar Awards. These awards are open to all new PhD students from all nationalities and research areas. The award covers tuition fees (home/EU or international, as appropriate) and the equivalent of the research council stipend (£13,590 in 2011-12). A completed funding application form should be submitted by Friday 2 March 2012 at the latest.  To ensure that you are holding an offer of a place by the funding closing date, please submit your online application for a place on the PhD programme no later than Wednesday 15 February 2012.  For funding information and guidelines about how to apply, please visit: www.llc.manchester.ac.uk/postgraduate/funding/  For informal inquiries about the academic side of the application process, please contact our Postgraduate Research Director: Professor Dee Reynolds (dee.reynolds@manchester.ac.uk) For questions about the administrative side of the application process, please contact: Ms Rachel Corbishley (Rachel.Corbishley@manchester.ac.uk)  Eventuelle Fragen auf Deutsch an: Dr Daron Burrows, Head of French Studies (daron.burrows@manchester.ac.uk)     