Lecturer in French Studies
           Lecturer in French Studies Queen's University Belfast -School of Modern Languages  Ref: 12/102341  French Studies is a thriving area in the School of Modern Languages with a strong research profile, vibrant postgraduate community, and distinctive teaching provision that spans French and francophone literary, cultural and visual studies from the Renaissance to the present day. French Studies at Queen's also has significant research and teaching expertise in Linguistics. The School is a core partner in the newly established Institute for Collaborative Research in the Humanities and is also host to five interdisciplinary research groups: Research Forum in Latin American Studies, Postcolonial Research Forum, the Forum for Translation and Cultural Encounter, the Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies, and the Queen's Interdisciplinary Linguistics Group.  Applications are invited for the above post. It is expected that the successful candidate will make a significant contribution to the research culture and profile of the School of Modern Languages. He or she will be responsible for the teaching of undergraduates and postgraduates in his or her area of research expertise, will contribute to French language teaching, and to the expansion of French Studies generally. The successful candidate will also play a full part in the administrative activities of French Studies and of the School of Modern Languages.  Applications are welcome from suitably qualified candidates who are engaged in research within any field of French Studies, although preference may be given to those with research and teaching strengths in the following areas: Linguistics and/or Eighteenth-Century Studies.  Informal enquiries may be directed to Dr Maeve McCusker, email: m.mccusker@qub.ac.uk, or telephone: 028 9097 3680.  Anticipated interview date: week commencing 10 December 2012  Salary scale: £32,901 - £48,246 per annum (including contribution points)  Closing date: Monday 26 November 2012  Please click 'Apply Online' below for further information and to apply or alternatively contact the Personnel Department, Queen's University Belfast, BT7 1NN. Telephone (028) 90973044 FAX: (028) 90971040 or e-mail on personnel@qub.ac.uk  The University is committed to equality of opportunity and to selection on merit. It therefore welcomes applications from all sections of society and particularly welcomes applications from people with a disability.      