PhD scholarships: IMPRS on Neuroscience of Communication: Function, Structure, and Plasticity
           PhD scholarships The International Max Planck Research School (IMPRS) on Neuroscience of Communication: Function, Structure, and Plasticity is based at the Max Planck Institute (MPI) for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, and the University of Leipzig (Germany). The IMPRS also involves the MPI for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig, and the Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience at University College London, UK. The graduate programme will start with the Summer Semester 2009 at the University of Leipzig.  The IMPRS on Neuroscience of Communication: Function, Structure, and Plasticity offers a unique interdisciplinary graduate programme to study the functional, structural, and plastic bases of human communication through an integrative and interdisciplinary approach. Its overriding goal is to train PhD students in multidisciplinary aspects involved in communicative action. Besides behavioural work, the programme draws on elaborate modern imaging techniques, including a 7-Tesla MRI scanner and a 306-channel MEG system.  Successful candidates will be accepted into one of the following four modules of the school: (1) Verbal Communication: Language, (2) Non-verbal Communication: Action and Interaction, (3) Neuroscience: Basic and Clinical, (4) Methods: Modern neuroimaging techniques, biophysics, and signal processing.  Requirement for successful candidates for the PhD programme is a Master's (or qualified equivalent) degree in disciplines like computer science, linguistics, neurobiology, neurology, physics, psychiatry, psychology, or related fields from a research-oriented institution of higher education. Candidates near to completion may also submit applications, indicating the expected date of completion. Depending on qualification and background, we may consider applicants with a Bachelor's degree. Further requirements for successful candidates include: - outstanding academic performance - excellent oral and written English language skills - aptitude for original, independent, and creative work - performed research and published, or submitted for publication, results (desirable)  The application must be supported by a Master's (or qualified equivalent) certificate, school certificate, academic transcripts, a CV, three names and email addresses of academic referees willing to support the candidate's application, and a personal statement explaining the candidate's motivation and reasons for pursuing a PhD at the IMPRS on Neuroscience of Communication: Function, Structure, and Plasticity. Applications should indicate the preferred module into which the candidate wishes to be accepted, and specify the preferred supervisor.  All admitted students receive financial aid in the form of a scholarship for the duration of three years. The language of the IMPRS is English. Visit www.leipzig.de for information on living in Leipzig, Germany, in the heart of Europe.  We seek to increase the number of women in those areas where they are under-represented and therefore explicitly encourage women to apply. We are committed to employing more handicapped individuals and especially encourage them to apply.  For further information and application details, go to imprs-neurocom.mpg.de, or contact Dr. Antje Holländer, Co-ordinator of the IMPRS, at: email: imprs@cbs.mpg.de phone: ++49 (0) 341 9940-2261  Applications are to be submitted in electronic format only until 31 March 2009. We will start assessing applications as of mid-February 2009. International Max Planck Research School (IMPRS)      