Lecturer / Senior Lecturer in French
           Lecturer / Senior Lecturer in French Sheffield Hallam University - Department of Management  Sheffield Business School  Full Time £31,020 to £45,486 per annum, dependant on experience  At Sheffield Hallam, new ideas are given life and nurtured in an environment where we go above and beyond to encourage and support original thinkers. Committed to building on our long-standing record of academic excellence and success, we believe in constantly improving the quality of our teaching, learning and research to deliver a student experience focused on education for employment.  We take a holistic approach to the student experience, aligning our teaching with high-quality learning support and the very best of facilities. Building on this approach you will contribute to curriculum development and delivery, and other forms of scholarly activity as part of a multi-disciplinary team. You will also design and deliver innovative, high quality and challenging learning experiences, which equip your students with the skills, knowledge and attributes required by employers.  Sheffield Business School is seeking to appoint L/SL in French who is able to contribute to the delivery of French modules at all levels and to the organisation of the work and study placements abroad.  An ability to teach a second language, preferably German, or modules in linguistics, cross-cultural awareness or contemporary issues would be an advantage.  You will also be expected to contribute to scholarship through research and/or consultancy activity.   You should have a native or near-native command of the foreign language. We would particularly welcome applicants who have experience of working in the TL country/ies.  You must be able to demonstrate experience of taking an innovative approach to teaching and learning with a willingness to engage in new initiatives.   You must have an honours degree, excellent communication and interpersonal skills, together with the ability to work effectively as a member of a team.  Vacancy Reference SBS 5202/11  Closing Date 22 May 2012 at 12 noon  Further information and application forms are available from www.shu.ac.uk/jobs or telephone 0114 225 3950 or email recruitment@shu.ac.uk  Human Resources Directorate Sheffield Hallam University, City Campus Howard Street, Sheffield S1 1WB  Please be aware we only accept completed Sheffield Hallam University application forms. Please do not send CV's.  www.shu.ac.uk  Hartmut Duppel     