Lectureship in French Studies
           The University of Manchester is seeking to appoint a scholar of outstanding potential to a   full-time Lectureship in French Studies,  beginning on 1 September 2012.   Job description Candidates must be able to teach material relating to the period c. 1500-1800, an interest in visual culture and/or the wider French-speaking world may be an advantage. A firm commitment to undergraduate teaching and the undergraduate experience is essential, as is a commitment to language teaching. Candidates must have native or near-native competence in spoken and written English and French, and must have a completed or near-completed doctorate involving French studies.  The appointed candidate will be expected to take a keen interest in teaching and to facilitate student learning in real and virtual environments, and be able to adopt different methodologies for teaching and assessment to suit different student groups. You will be expected to be able to contribute to teaching at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the field of French studies.  You must be able to collaborate closely with colleagues in the delivery of teaching and learning, be willing to take a share of responsibilities for student progress and academic management, and above all be eager to make a full commitment to our ideals of collegiality and academic integrity at all levels of activity.  Person specification Essential • The ability to teach material relating to the period c. 1500-1800 • A completed or near-completed doctorate involving French studies • A proven ability and potential in research with a developing record of high quality publications • Experience of teaching and designing courses in French studies at BA level • A strong commitment to delivering high-quality, research-led teaching, and to contributing to the discipline’s curriculum • Native or near-native command of written and spoken French and English • The willingness and capacity to contribute to the French language-teaching programme • The ability to fulfil required administrative responsibilities efficiently • A strong commitment to collegiality and to working as part of a team • Excellent presentational skills for the effective delivery of lectures and teaching of seminars and small groups • Sufficient IT competence to make effective use of the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (currently Blackboard 9) Desirable • A research interest in visual culture and/or the wider French-speaking world • The capacity to contribute to French teaching and supervision in Translation Studies at BA and MA level  Informal enquiries can be made to the Head of French Studies, Dr Daron Burrows (daron.burrows@manchester.ac.uk)  The University of Manchester values a diverse workforce and welcomes applications from all sections of the community.     