Lecturer in Hispanic Studies (0.5FTE)
           Lecturer in Hispanic Studies (0.5FTE) University of London - School of Advanced Study  The Role Applications are invited for a part-time Lectureship in the Institute of Germanic &amp, Romance Studies. The principal role of this post is to develop IGRS networks and events on the Hispanic side of its activities, to assist the Director in developing contacts with Embassies and Cultural Institutes, and national and international networking in the Hispanic field. You will be expected to supervise postgraduate students, to make a significant contribution to research training and the continued development of the Institute's electronic resources, and to assist with the editing of the Journal of Romance Studies. In addition, you will be required to carry out research and to contribute to the research facilitation role of the Institute.  RequirementsYou must have completed, or be completing, a doctorate and have shown strong research potential in one or more areas of Hispanic culture. Interdisciplinary work would be an advantage, as would a research interest in Film.  About The Department The IGRS was established in 2004 with the merger of the two Institutes of Germanic Studies and Romance Studies, founded in 1950 and 1989 respectively. It is one of the ten Institutes of the University of London's School of Advanced Study. Its purpose is to promote and facilitate the study of the cultures of German-speaking and Romance language countries across a range of disciplines in the humanities. The Institute fosters and contributes to national and international collaborative, cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural research by means of seminars, lectures, workshops, colloquia, conferences, and a fellowship programme.  Further Information This is a fixed term post, available from 1 February 2012 (or as soon as possible thereafter) to 31 July 2013. The closing date for receipt of completed applications is on Sunday, 22 January 2012. Interviews are scheduled to take place in the week commencing Monday, 30 January 2012. The University offers membership to the Universities’ Superannuation Scheme (USS).Pursuing equal opportunities and excellence in education. www.london.ac.uk    About the University of London The University of London is one of the oldest and largest universities in the UK – and the most diverse. Established by Royal Charter in 1836, the University is recognised globally as a world leader in Higher Education. We are a federal institution consisting of 19 self-governing Colleges of outstanding reputation, and a number of acclaimed central academic bodies, the University of London offer almost every subject covered in any University curriculum, delivering huge flexibility and choice to its students.      Hartmut Duppel     