Lectureship in Spanish and European Studies King's College London - School of Arts and Humanities
           Lectureship in Spanish and European Studies King's College London - School of Arts and Humanities  Applications are invited for a Lecturership in Spanish and European Studies. Candidates should have research interests in twentieth century Spanish History and Politics and the ability to teach in these at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Interest in Spain’s involvement in European integration would be an advantage. You will contribute to the MA programmes of European Studies and will help to increase its international and research student intake. Experience of PhD supervision may be an advantage.  The successful candidate will be a member of both the newly formed Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies and of the European Studies Programme. The new Department is formed of the present departments of Spanish and Spanish American Studies and of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies, two of the oldest and most distinguished departments of their kind in the country, both with outstanding research profiles. European Studies at King’s already has very successful BA, MA, and PhD programmes.  The successful candidate will be expected to contribute to the development of a vibrant research environment in both the Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Spanish American Studies and of European Studies at King's by publishing in his/her field of expertise. Experience of PhD supervision may be an advantage. He or she will be expected to have a good speaking and reading knowledge of Spanish.  The appointment will be made, dependent on relevant qualifications and experience, within the Grade 6/7 of the scale, currently £30,747- £45,155 per annum, plus £2,323 London Allowance.  Benefits include an annual season ticket loan scheme and a final salary superannuation scheme.   For an informal discussion of the post please contact Prof. Robert Archer (present Department of Spanish and Spanish American Studies) or Prof. Alex Callinicos (Director of European Studies) on +44 207 848 2208/5, or via email at robert.archer@kcl.ac.uk and alex.callinicos@kcl.ac.uk.  Further details and application packs are available on the College’s website at www.kcl.ac.uk/jobs, or alternatively by emailing Human Resources at jcmbjobs@kcl.ac.uk. Please quote reference number A7/AAS/230/10-LA in all correspondence.  Closing date:  15 July 2010   Interviews are scheduled for 22 July 2010.  Equality of opportunity is College policy  Click here for Employer Profile: www.jobs.ac.uk/enhanced/employer/kings-college-london/ 