Call for articles: "Postcolonialism and Islam in the Francophone World", International Journal of Francophone Studies: 
           The International Journal of Francophone Studies invites articles for a special volume on the theme of 'Postcolonialism and Islam in the Francophone World' to be published in 2012/13.  Postcolonialism and Islam are two terms that frequently appear in tandem. However, the relationship between the two and the question of their compatibility has not been extensively investigated. The speed and intensity of the changes characteristic of late modernity under the pressures of cultural and economic globalisation has traumatised Muslims and non-Muslims alike. Hybrid identity formations, very often provisional, are generated in the articulations of difference marked by imaginary relations to faith, nation, class, gender, sexuality and language. Postcolonialism might seem to provide a framework for approaching the experiences of not only formerly colonised subjects but diasporic people and their host societies. However, Muslim writers, intellectuals, artists and filmmakers have both adopted and rejected postcolonial theory as an effective tool for accounting for the experience of Muslims in the modern world.  This multi- and inter-disciplinary project will be relevant to specialists in postcolonial theory, cultural, historical, political, sociological, literary, film, performance, language and religious studies who seek to problematise both the terms themselves and their juxtaposition. It will mainly focus on the analysis of Islam in the cultural and artistic production of the Francophone World both in the homeland and the diaspora, from the 1960s to the present.  Selected articles which address qualitatively the central theme and strictly adhere to the journal's specifications will be rigorously peer-reviewed.  Submit your article in English or in French directly to the journal's website by clicking on &quot,Submit to this journal&quot,. www.intellectbooks.co.uk/journals/view-Journal,id=134/  Deadline: Friday 30 September 2011      