16 doctoral/PhD scholarships in transcultural studies
           Universitaet Heidelberg  16 doctoral/PhD scholarships in transcultural studies  The Graduate School for Transcultural Studies (GSTS) is part of the Cluster of Excellence &quot,Asia and Europe in a Global Context: Shifting Asymmetries in Cultural Flows&quot, at the University of Heidelberg (http://www.vjc.uni-hd.de/). The objective of the Cluster is to examine processes of cultural exchange with a strong focus on interdisciplinary research. The Cluster challenges the master narrative of asymmetrical Western domination along with its historical explanation, its methodology and the resulting structures of humanities and social science research. Starting from winter term 2008 the GSTS offers within its doctoral program The GSTS is looking for applicants with an excellent academic background interested in completing a doctoral degree at the University of Heidelberg. Applicants are required to have graduated at a Master level or equivalent by the time of their application. Scholarships are available from 2008 to both home/EU and overseas students up to the age of thirty. They range from 1,000 to 1,400 € per month, depending on family allowance. The scholarships are awarded for two years with possibility of extension for a third year. Eight scholarships are reserved for students from Asia.  The doctoral program addresses applicants with above-average university degree whose PhD-project fits in one of the Cluster's four Research Areas (http://www.vjc.uni-hd.de/areas.htm). Currently contributors to the Cluster work in the fields of Anthropology, Archeology, Art History, South and East Asian Studies, Assyriology Cultural Studies, English Philology, Ethnology, Geography, History, Indology Islamic Studies, Musicology, Philosophy, Political Science, Public Health, Religious Studies, Sinology, Sociology and others. Reflecting the interdisciplinary approach of the Cluster, the GSTS invites M.A. holders from these as well as other disciplines from the humanities and social sciences to apply.  Electronic submission of the application is mandatory. For details see the Online Application System at www.vjc.uni-hd.de/graduate.htm.  The Cluster strongly encourages qualified women scholars to apply. Handicapped persons with the same equivalent qualifications will be given preference.     