CfP: 2011 Humanities Conference (Universidad de Granada)
           NINTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON NEW DIRECTIONS IN THE HUMANITIES Universidad de Granada, Granada, Spain 8-11 June 2011 www.TheHumanities.com/Conference/  We are pleased to be holding the 2011 conference in Granada, Spain at the Universidad de Granada. The Humanities Conference and its companion journal provide spaces for dialogue and for the generation of new knowledge about the nature of the humanities, building strongly on the past traditions of the humanities whilst setting a renewed agenda for their future.  Over the past eight years, the Humanities Conference has established a reputation as a focal point for new ideas and new practices in humanities research and teaching. The conference was held at the University of California, Los Angeles, USA in 2010, in Beijing, China in 2009, at the Fatih University, Istanbul, Turkey in 2008, at the American University of Paris in 2007, at the University of Carthage in Tunis in 2006, at Cambridge University in the UK in 2005, at the Monash University Centre in Prato, Italy in 2004, and the University of the Aegean in Rhodes, Greece in 2003.  In addition to plenary speakers, the conference will also include numerous paper, workshop and colloquium presentations by practitioners, teachers and researchers. We invite you to respond to the conference Call-for-Papers. Presenters may choose to submit written papers for publication in The International Journal of the Humanities. If you are unable to attend the conference in person, virtual registrations are also available, which allow you to submit a paper for refereeing and possible publication in the journal.  Whether you are a virtual or in-person presenter at this conference, we also encourage you to present on the Humanities YouTube Playlist. Please select the Online Sessions link on the conference website for further details. Additionally, please join our online conversation by subscribing to our monthly email newsletter and subscribing to our Facebook, RSS, or Twitter feeds at www.TheHumanities.com .  The deadline for the next round in the call for papers (a title and short abstract) is 5 May 2011. Future deadlines will be announced on the conference website after this date. Proposals are reviewed within two weeks of submission. Full details of the conference, including an online proposal submission form, may be found on the conference website at www.TheHumanities.com/Conference/ . Submissions are also open for Spanish language proposals and presentations.  We look forward to receiving your proposal and hope you will be able to join us in Granada this June.  Jose Luis Ortega Martin Universidad de Granada Granada, Spain  For the Organizing Committee and the Advisory Board, International Conference on New Directions in the Humanities and International Journal of the Humanities      