2 Postdocs "Baroque Spectacle" (Belgien)
           As part of the interdisciplinary research project 'La société du spectacle. La fête baroque entre Italie et anciens Pays-Bas (1585-1685)', funded by the Belgian Federal Science Policy Office, jointly sponsored by the Belgian Historical Institute in Rome, the Fondation Nationale princesse Marie-José and the Academia Belgica, and hosted by the Université Catholique de Louvain, the Université de Liège, the Catholic University of Leuven and Ghent University, we seek to engage for a period of two years, starting in June or September (open to negotiation) 2011:  Two post-doctoral researchers in the fields of art history, history, musicology, history of theatre or history of sciences.  In the early modern period, 'spectacle' was an important form of expression in religious, civic and scientific contexts, involving different forms of knowledge and engaging institutional networks as well as groups of individuals. As such, the category of the spectacle is particularly useful to shed new light on the multiple exchanges between Italy and the Southern Netherlands.  For a full description of the project, see: www.rehseis.cnrs.fr/spip.php  Together with the research groups of the supervisors and affiliated researchers, the post-doctoral researchers will examine how different forms of 'spectacle' engendered and stimulated such exchanges. They will execute their own research within the framework of the project, act as coordinators between the research groups involved in the project, and assist in the realisation of the project outcomes, which may include a theatrical performance or an exhibition.  The project is interdisciplinary and multi-lingual in nature, involves archival as well as historical and theoretical work, and requires good interpersonal and organisational skills.  Remunaration: dependent on qualifications and experience, around EUR 2000 / month NET.  Applications consist of a full CV and a short cover letter highlighting the competences and skills that you would bring to the project, to be sent by email to the four supervisors listed below no later than 1st April 2011.  Ralph Dekoninck (Ralph.Dekoninck@uclouvain.be), Maarten Delbeke (maarten.delbeke@ugent.be), Annick Delfosse (adelfosse@ulg.ac.be), Koen Vermeir (Koen.Vermeir@hiw.kuleuven.be).     