Assistant Professor (PhD preferred): Italian Studies 
           Colby College is seeking an Assistant Professor (PhD preferred, ABD considered) for a continuing position in Italian Studies to begin September 1, 2011. Continuing faculty, typically on three-year renewable contracts, are valued members of the academic community at Colby, and enjoy many of the same benefits as tenure-track faculty, including sabbaticals, support for conference travel, and research funds.  The successful candidate will be part of an energetic department committed to providing the best possible instruction to students. We are particularly interested in individuals with a strong background in language instruction and a field of research that will complement existing program strengths in modern and contemporary Italian literature and cinema. Specialization in medieval and Renaissance studies especially welcome. Teaching load is four courses per year, including language, literature and culture courses at the beginning, intermediate and advanced levels.     For full consideration, send a complete application including a curriculum vitae, a letter of application describing teaching philosophy, teaching experience and research interests, evidence of teaching effectiveness, including course evaluations for two different classes if available, a brief sample of scholarly writing, and three letters of recommendation. Send application to Adrianna M. Paliyenko, Chair of Italian Search Committee, Department of French and Italian, Colby College, 4656 Mayflower Hill, Waterville, ME 04901. Review of applications will begin November 26, 2010, and will continue until the position is filled. Preliminary interviews will take place at the MLA Convention in Los Angeles. Colby is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer, committed to excellence through diversity, and strongly encourages applications and nominations of persons of color, women, and members of other under-represented groups. For more information about the College, please visit the Colby Web site: www.colby.edu     