CfP: Science & Literature
           INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE on SCIENCE &amp, LITERATURE  Call for papers This Conference is the first to be organized under the aegis of the Commission on Science and Literature DHST/ IUHPST, which was established in July 2013. Co-organizers will be the School of Humanities, Hellenic Open University and the Program of History and Philosophy of Science and Technology of the Institute of Historical Studies/ National Hellenic Research Foundation.  The Conference does not have a specific theme, as its intent is to create an open forum for all scholars interested in Science and Literature, thus bringing into the dialogue multiple perspectives. Nevertheless, the Conference will be organized along thematic sessions, according to the papers which will be accepted by the Scientific Committee. During the Conference, members of the Commission will elect the first body of officers (president, two vice presidents, secretary and webmaster) who will serve as Council Board for three years. Membership in the Commission is open (without anyfees). To apply for membership send an email to gvlahakis@yahoo.com.  Venue of the Conference The Conference will take place in the National Hellenic Research Foundation, Vasilleos Constantinou 48, 116 35 Athens Greece. It has been chosen also for symbolic reasons as it combines harmonically research in the humanities and in sciences. (http://www.eie.gr/index-en.html) The building is typical of the 1960s architecture with all the necessary facilities, coffee bar and a nice patio. Smoking is not permitted in all closed areas of the building. There is easy transportation to the center of Athens (which is in a walking distance of 15 minutes) and the airport.   Submission of  Papers  Proposals for individual papers (20 minutes) or panels of three or four papers should be submitted to gvlahakis@yahoo.com until the 31 January 2014. They must include the title of the paper (or the theme of the panel), name and affiliation of the author(s), an abstract of no more than 350 words and a short CV of up to five lines. An international committee will review the submissions and notice of acceptance will be given on 15th of February.  Registration:  November 1st 2013 to April 30th 2014 Registration fees (include coffee, tea, refreshments and Conference material): 120 Euros Students, early career or unemployed researchers: 60 Euros After 30th of April the fee will be 150 Euros for ordinary registration and 75 Euros for the reduced fee categories. Conference dinner (optional): 40 Euros Conference dinner will be given at a restaurant near Acropolis, in the traditional old city of Athens, with a view of the hill and monument of Acropolis. Please notify us if you prefer a vegetarian menu.  An optional excursion to Aegina island on the 12th of July (about 1 hour with ferry from Pireaus) will be organized for those who would like to enjoy a day on a typical Greek island with nice food, excellent beaches and visits to historical sites. The fee for participation will be kept at the minimum level.  Registration fees shall be paid in the following account by bank transfer: Georgios  Vlachakis National Bank of Greece account number: 100/762194-91 IBAN: GR1501101000000010076219491 SWIFT (BIC) ETHNGRAA Please note your name and  Science and  Literature Conference for  the reason of transfer.  A short note by email will be  appreciated.  Accommodation Participants are asked to make their own arrangements concerning their accommodation in Athens, but the Conference organizers will be happy to give any necessary assistance. Therefore a list with hotels and hostels will be shortly available.  Website The website of the Commission (www.coscilit.org) will be soon available and any further information will be posted there.     