Forum for Modern Language Studies - Forum Essay Prize 2011: "Literature and the Law"
           Important work in the humanities is taking place where law and literature intersect: in the study of hate speech under the rubric of performative language, in the study of copyright and intellectual property law as part of the material culture of literature, in the study of forensic genres of literature, from revenge tragedy to the contemporary policier. What can literature tell us about the law? How does literature evoke the law to illuminate other subjects? In which ways do the two influence one another? What points of reference enable, or delimit, their interactions?  The 2011 Forum Prize competition invites submissions on the subject of Literature and the Law, addressing literature of any period, and in any of the languages covered by the journal (usually English, French, German, Italian, Spanish and Russian, but we will consider others too). The competition is open to all researchers, whether established or early-career: it is worth noting that previous competitions have been won by scholars in both categories.  The Forum Prize The winner's prize will consist of: 1. Publication of the winning essay in the next appropriate volume of Forum for Modern Language Studies 2. A cash prize of £200 Other entries of sufficient quality may be invited to publish.  Entry Requirements for the Forum Essay Prize 2011 The Forum Essay Prize is open to all researchers. Essays are to be no longer than 6,500 words, inclusive of all footnotes and references and should conform to FMLS house style. The closing date for entries will be 31 March 2011.  Submissions Submissions for the essay competition must arrive no later than 31 March 2011. Entries must be made via the online submission system at www.fmls.oxfordjournals.org. If you have any general enquiries about the competition, please contact the Administrative Editor, Dr Robin Mackenzie, at rmm10@st-andrews.ac.uk  Visit www.oxfordjournals.org/page/4116/1 for full details of the Essay Prize rules. Visit www.oxfordjournals.org/page/4117/1 to read details on how to submit.     