Language Tutor in French
           Division of International Communications Language Tutor in French  Applications are invited for the above post in the Division of International Communications based at the University of Nottingham Ningbo, China.  The post represents an exciting and unique opportunity for candidates with the ability to deliver high quality language teaching from beginner to advanced levels in French for undergraduate and postgraduate students. In addition to teaching, the successful candidates will also be expected to contribute to the further development of language teaching and learning resources, including e-learning and web-based provision, and to the administration of quality assurance procedures.  Candidates must have a degree in a relevant discipline, an ability to teach from beginner to advanced levels in French. Effective communication and presentation skills in English and experience of teaching at degree level in an international English-speaking institution are also required.  Salary will be within the range of RMB 194,773 - RMB 232,569 per annum. Salary may progress to 254,135 subject to performance. (Salary equivalent to £18,306 - £21,858 per annum, up to £23,885 subject to performance (based on exchange rate of GBP 1 = CNY 10.64)).  In addition, an attractive package including accommodation allowance, travel allowance and insurance will be provided for international appointments. The post will initially be offered on a fixed term contract with the University of Nottingham, Ningbo, China for a period of one year with effect from 1 September 2011 or as soon as possible thereafter. This contract may be extended on an indefinite basis by mutual agreement, subject to revised terms and conditions.  Informal enquiries regarding this vacancy may be addressed to: Professor Stephen Quinn, Head of Division of International Communications, email: stephen.quinn@notingham.edu.cn. Please note that applications sent directly to this email address will not be accepted.  For more details and/or to apply on-line please access: www.nottingham.ac.uk/Jobs/CurrentVacancies/ref/UNNC156. If you are unable to apply on-line please contact the Human Resources Department, tel: 0115 951 3262. Please quote ref. UNNC/156. Closing date: 8 July 2011. Interview to be held late July.  Please be advised that your referees will be contacted prior to interview.     