Full-time PhD Studentship in Natural Language Processing
           Full-time PhD Studentship in Natural Language Processing at the University of Strasbourg Closing date for applications: August 15, 2012  Applications are invited for one PhD studentship on the topic of multilingual document clustering for the induction of translation lexicons. The studentship is available for three years and will be based at the University of Strasbourg. The PhD will be supervised by Pr. Thierry Grass, Pr. Pierre Gançarski and Dr. Delphine Bernhard. The successful candidate will be part of the LiLPa research group (http://lilpa.misha.fr/accueil.htm), in partnership with the LSIIT laboratory (http://lsiit.u-strasbg.fr/).  The PhD student will work on new methods for clustering multilingual documents in order to improve the extraction of translation lexicons from comparable corpora. The innovative aspects of the project will include the development of a crosslingual measure of textual similarity taking into account the lexical and semantic relationships of words within the language and across languages. This similarity measure will then be used for the clustering of multilingual documents. The methods proposed will be evaluated in the framework of the Logoscope project, which will start in September 2012. The Logoscope project aims to develop an online platform for the semi-automatic detection of neologisms and their translations in several languages. The languages covered are primarily French, English and German. Other languages may also be covered depending on the language skills of the successful candidate.   The studentship is open to: - students who hold a Master's degree from a non-French university - students who hold a Master's degree from the University of Strasbourg, after previous studies in a foreign country.  Candidates should hold a Master's degree in computational linguistics or a related discipline. Good programming skills are required, as well as good oral and written communication skills in English. For this position, familiarity with the German language is a plus. Fluency in other languages will be highly appreciated.  The application should include: - a CV with a list of publications (if applicable) - copies of degree certificates (with their translations into French, unless they are in English or German) - the name and address of the last attended university - a copy of the birth certificate - letters of recommendation from senior researchers / professors (if possible) - a statement of interest explaining your motivations for the PhD project (1/2 to 1 page) - the form available at www.unistra.fr/uploads/media/DOSSIER_RECRUTEMENT_EN_CONTRAT_DOCTORAL_IDEX_2012.docx  Further information about this position can be requested by contacting Dr. Delphine Bernhard (dbernhard@unistra.fr)  Applications should be sent in electronic form (PDF documents) to Pr. Thierry Grass (tgrass@unistra.fr) and Dr. Delphine Bernhard (dbernhard@unistra.fr) no later than August 15, 2012.     