Lecturer in French - (two posts)
           Lecturer in French - (two posts) University of Nottingham - Department of French &amp, Francophone Studies  School of Cultures, Languages &amp, Area Studies  £32,901 - £44,166 per annum, depending on skills and experience. Salary progression beyond this scale is subject to performance  Applications are invited for the above posts based in the Department of French and Francophone Studies. Applications are welcome from candidates specializing in any area of French Studies in the post-1800 period, though for one of the posts preference may be given to candidates with expertise in the area of visual culture.  Successful candidates will be expected to participate in language teaching and first-year teaching, to contribute specialist modules in the second and final years of the undergraduate course, and to provide teaching and supervision at postgraduate level. Candidates will also be expected to have published high-quality research appropriate to their stage of career. All candidates should hold a PhD in French Studies, or equivalent, and have appropriate experience of teaching at university level.  The Department of French and Francophone Studies is part of the School of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies. It pursues teaching and research across a broad spectrum of French Studies from the Middle Ages to the present day. There is a thriving postgraduate community with students working across the range of French Studies. The Department edits its own journal, Nottingham French Studies, founded in 1961 and published by Edinburgh University Press. Applications for undergraduate places are strong, with up to 250 applicants being admitted annually to read French on various honours degree programmes.  The start date of these full-time, permanent posts is 1 September 2012.  Informal enquiries may be addressed to Professor Christopher Johnson, tel: 0115 951 4997 or email: christopher.johnson@nottingham.ac.uk. Please note that applications sent directly to this email address will not be accepted.  For more details and/or to apply on-line please access: www.nottingham.ac.uk/Jobs/CurrentVacancies/ref/CE07124A.   If you are unable to apply on-line please contact the Human Resources Department, tel: 0115 951 5206.   Please quote ref. CE/07124A.   Closing date: 20 February 2012.  For all our vacancies and more about working at the University of Nottingham see: jobs.nottingham.ac.uk.      