Max Planck Research Groups
           The Max-Planck-Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Wissenschaften e.V. is an independent, non-profit research organization, whose goal is to promote top quality research at its institutes. The over 80 research institutes of the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft conduct basic research in Biology and Medicine, Chemistry, Physics and Technology, the Humanities, Social Sciences and Law. In particular, the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft addresses new, innovative and interdisciplinary research areas.  To achieve this, we need you - outstanding postdocs in all fields of research pursued in our organisation. We invite you to work with us and apply for a position as Max Planck Research Group Leader. We also encourage candidates with an interdisciplinary background and those who are working in the field of Astrobiology and Origins of Life.  Excellent research is irrespective of gender. However, the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft still lacks female scientists and their outstanding talents. We hereby explicitly welcome applications from highly skilled women in all disciplines.  The successful candidates will be offered a Max Planck Research Group for a period of five years at a Max Planck Institute of their own choice. This includes a W2 position equivalent to assistant or associate professor level and additional resources for research positions, budget, and investments. The cumulative amount of funding is competitive with top class start-up packages of international career development programs. Start of funding is in 2015, with a lead time of up to three months.  Your applications should include a CV, a list of publications, copies of three publications, a one-page summary of scientific achievements, two letters of recommendation, and a two-page research plan. For further information and detailed application instructions please see www.mprg.mpg.de .  The Max-Planck-Gesellschaft is committed to employing individuals with disabilities and explicitly encourages them to apply.     