Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in French Language (0.6 FTE)
           Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in French Language (0.6 FTE) Nottingham Trent University - School of Arts and Humanities  Post Ref No: M2569 £29,972 - £44,016 per annum, pro-rata Grade H/I  City campus  French at NTU has a proud record of excellence in teaching and research.  The subject, within the University Language Programme and within the undergraduate and postgraduate provision, is a key component of the academic identity of the School of Arts and Humanities and integral to the University's international orientation.    You will be able to demonstrate experience and expertise in teaching, curriculum design and assessment in French Language.  Candidates for this post must possess a commitment to teaching and learning and be able to work in a team-based context.  The post-holder will be expected to contribute to curriculum delivery and development within the University Language programme in particular, and, depending on expertise and interest, will have the opportunity to contribute to the research profile of the French subject team.  If you have any specific queries in relation to this position, please contact the Head of History, Languages and International Studies, Angela Brown, on +44 (0)115 848 3146 or by e-mail angela.brown@ntu.ac.uk, or Professor Jean-Pierre Boulé on +44 (0) 115 848 3396 or by email jean-pierre.boule@ntu.ac.uk  Applications from candidates who require Tier 2 sponsorship to work in the UK will be considered alongside other applications. However, candidates who require sponsorship will not be appointed if a suitably qualified, experienced and skilled settled worker is available as it is unlikely that Nottingham Trent University can demonstrate the UK Border Agency requirements for sponsorship have been met. For further information on this please visit the UK Border Agency website.  Closing date - 20 December 2011 Interview date - Week beginning 16 January 2012  Further application details are available at www.ntu.ac.uk/vacancies. If you require documentation in alternative formats (e.g. Braille, large print) please contact us at job.vacancies@ntu.ac.uk  Nottingham Trent University is committed to promoting equality and valuing diversity and we seek people who share those values.     