Senior Lecturer / Lecturer in French (Francophone Literature and Culture, Film and Visual Culture, and Early Modern or Enlightenment)
           Senior Lecturer / Lecturer in French University of Aberdeen - School of Language &amp, Literature  We would like to invite applications for 2 full time positions in French within the School of Language &amp, Literature, with immediate effect. This is an excellent opportunity for someone wishing to join a distinguished French department, with an outstanding reputation for teaching and research. French at Aberdeen was rated 5*A at the RAE2001 exercise, with 55% of its research rated at 3* or 4* in RAE2008, when it retained its position within the top 5 French departments in the UK.   Appointments will be either at Senior Lecturer or Lecturer level depending on experience and qualifications. The area of expertise is open, but we would particularly welcome applications from candidates working in the areas of Francophone Literature and Culture, Film and Visual Culture, and Early Modern or Enlightenment, and well as those with a strong commitment to comparative and interdisciplinary teaching and research.  As well as carrying out teaching, research and administrative duties in French, the successful candidates may be expected to participate in our Masters degrees (M.Litts) in Comparative Literature and/or Visual Culture, and may also be involved in teaching our new cross-School programme in 'Literature in a World Context'. Early career researchers should be able to demonstrate exceptional scholarly promise, while more advanced or well-established applicants should have a distinguished record of publication, and a strong national or international research profile commensurate with rank.  Informal enquiries can be made to Professor Michael Syrotinski, head of the French department - m.syro@abdn.ac.uk, tel: 01224 272 152.  Salary will be at the appropriate point on the Grade 8 salary scale for Senior Lecturers (£45,155 - £52,347 per annum) and Grade 7 for Lecturers (£36,715 - £43,840 per annum) with placement according to qualifications and experience.  Should you require a visa to undertake paid employment in the UK you will be required to fulfil the minimum points criteria to be granted a Certificate of Sponsorship and Tier 2 visa. As appropriate, at the time an offer of appointment is made you will be asked to demonstrate that you fulfil the criteria in respect of financial maintenance and competency in English. Please do not hesitate to contact Louise Alford, HR Adviser, for further information on this.  To apply online for this position visit www.abdn.ac.uk/jobs  Job Reference Number: 1151638.  The closing date for the receipt of applications is Friday 27 August 2010.  Promoting Diversity and Equal Opportunities throughout the University     