Lecturer in Italian
           Lecturer in Italian - Durham University  Job Description  The Department of Italian in the School of Modern Languages and Cultures seeks to appoint a fixed-term Lecturer in Italian for twelve months from 1 October 2010. The successful candidate will undertake research within one or more of the School’s interdisciplinary research groups (Culture and Difference, Literature, History, Theory, Translation, Linguistics, Pedagogy, Visual and Performance) and will deliver a range of modules as part of the Department’s teaching programme, working closely with other staff members to ensure consistently high-quality provision. The new Lecturer should demonstrate versatility in teaching, substantial research achievements, and a potential to make a significant contribution to the research culture of the Department of Italian, the School, and the University research centres/institutes to which they contribute.  Staff Profile  Present permanent members of staff in Italian, with their research and teaching interests: Prof. Carlo Caruso (Professor in Italian): Literary and visual culture of the Italian Renaissance and Baroque, modern Italian literature (19th century). Dr Stefano Cracolici (Senior Lecturer): Medieval and Renaissance Italian literature and culture, Petrarch and Petrarchism, history of emotions, humanism, medicine and physiognomy, visual culture (art, cinema, architecture). Dr Federico Federici (Senior Lecturer): Calvino, translation theory, comparative contemporary literature (20th-century, Italian and French). Dr Dario Tessicini (Senior Lecturer): History of Science, early-modern intellectual history, translation theory and practice in the Italian Renaissance. Dott. Lucina Stuart (Teaching Fellow): Coordination of language modules, Italian language at all levels. Dott. Rossella Peressini (Lettrice): Italian language at all levels.  Research Environment  In 2006 the Department of Italian expanded to include four research-active members of staff. In the department's first submission to the RAE in 2008, 90% of the research assessed was recognised as being of at least of international quality (2* and above) in terms of originality, significance and rigour. All members of academic staff are actively engaged in research and publication, and frequently present their work at national and international meetings. They are supported by the School’s Research Committee, which oversees a supportive infrastructure of research monitoring, guidance, strategy formulation, funding and interdepartmental dialogue.  In addition, the University offers extensive research support through Faculty funding, doctoral fellowships, Institute of Advanced Study fellowships, generous research leave entitlement (1 term in 7), and assistance with applications for external funding. The School has a strong research culture bringing staff from its constituent departments together in interdisciplinary discussions and collaborations under four main research groups (Culture and Difference, Literature History and Theory, Translation, Linguistics and Pedagogy, Visual and Performance) backed by a university-wide research infrastructure which is supportive of interdisciplinary enquiry. Research strengths have been identified within the areas of Medieval and Early-Modern Culture, the Interdisciplinary Study of Modern Literatures, and Theatre, Film and Photography Studies. The School organises a regular programme of research seminars and public lectures given by both Durham staff and invited speakers from other UK and overseas universities. It is also home to a large and growing body of postgraduate students.  The School is a leading partner in the Institute for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (http://www.dur.ac.uk/imrs), the Centre for Seventeenth-Century Studies (http://www.dur.ac.uk/c17s) and the Durham Centre for Advanced Photography Studies (http://www.dur.ac.uk/dcaps).     