PhD Research Studentship "The British Traveller in France and/or Italy"
           PhD Research Studentship &quot,The British Traveller in France and/or Italy&quot, Bangor University  During its 125th anniversary celebrations, Bangor University launched a five year programme of postgraduate expansion. As part of this expansion, the College of Arts and Humanities is inviting applications for an Anniversary PhD studentship. This provides three years of support for full-time PhD study to begin on 1st January 2012 or as soon as possible thereafter.  Each holder of a PhD studentship receives an annual maintenance grant of £13,000 (for 2011/12). For the following two years (2012/13, 2013/14) the stipend will reflect Research Councils UK guidance. PhD studentship holders also receive an annual research allowance of up to £1,500 (for approved expenditure).  The College invites applications from highly motivated suitably qualified candidates for the following PhD Project:  This research project will focus upon the subject of British travel to France and/or Italy and applicants are invited to frame a subject area relating to any period from the late fifteenth century to the contemporary period. This research project builds upon existing research expertise within the College of Arts and Humanities at Bangor University and will offer opportunities to analyse a cultural phenomenon of varied significance across a number of centuries, but also potentially to consider the status of material artefacts, the visual arts, personal correspondence, literary narrative and historical documentation in the light of this enquiry.  Given the richness and diversity of the Mostyn archive in North and Mid-Wales, applicants may wish to consider linking the subject of British travel to the materials contained within these archives. For further information concerning the archives, see:  www.imems.ac.uk/mostyn.php.en  This studentship offers the possibility of a wide-ranging research enquiry which, if required, could be supplemented by further language training in the School of Modern Languages at Bangor University. The successful candidate will be selected according to the innovative qualities of his/her proposal.  Supervisors/Schools: Professor Andrew Hiscock (School of English), Dr.Laura Rorato (School of Modern Languages), Professor Tony Claydon (School of History, Welsh History and Archaeology) For further information regarding this scholarship and the online application form, please see  www.bangor.ac.uk/scholarships/apply.php.en  The application deadline is 5pm on Friday 30th September 2011 and interviews will be held in October.  Committed To Equal Opportunities     