Professorship in Comparative Media and Literary Studies (f/m) (Assistant or Associate Professor)
           Jacobs University  The School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Jacobs University Bremen invites applications for a Professorship in Comparative Media and Literary Studies (f/m) (Assistant or Associate Professor)  The successful candidate must have an international track record of excellence in research, teaching and funded projects in any field of comparative media and literary studies and must hold a Ph.D. degree at the time of the application. He/she will contribute to teaching programs of the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, e.g. to the undergraduate program &quot,Integrated Cultural Studies&quot, and to the graduate programs of the Research Centers &quot,Humanities, Modernity, Globalization&quot, and/or &quot,Visual Communication and Expertise.&quot,  Salary and professorial rank will be commensurate with qualification and experience. The annual teaching load is three courses at three hours each. The language of instruction is English. The successful candidate shall begin in February 1, 2012. An initial contract will cover seven years and can be prolonged.  Jacobs University is an equal opportunity employer. Applications should include single PDF attachments contain­ing a letter of motivation, copies of certificates and diplomas, curriculum vitae, a record of teaching, a statement on current and future research interests, and the names and addresses of three referees.  Only electronic applications in PDF-format will be accepted. Files will be destroyed once the search is completed. Please send your application no later than August 15, 2011 to the following email address:  ref.720@jacobs-university.de  Please quote Ref. 720 in all correspondence.  For further information on Jacobs University please see www.jacobs-university.de  JACOBS UNIVERSITY IS AN INDEPENDENT INSTITUTION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION, RESEARCH, INTERNATIONAL LEADERSHIP AND GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP.     