Lecturer in Hispanic Studies
           Lecturer in Hispanic Studies Department of Hispanic Studies University of Sheffield - School of Modern Languages and Linguistics, Faculty of Arts and Humanities  Job Reference Number: UOS003883  Salary: Grade 8  £37,012 - £44,166 per annum.  Potential to progress to £49,689 per annum through sustained exceptional contribution.  Closing Date: 16 February 2012  Summary: The School of Modern Languages and Linguistics wishes to recruit a Lecturer in Hispanic Studies in any area of the discipline with effect from September 2012. Specialisation in performance or the visual culture of the Spanish-speaking world is particularly welcome.   The Department of Hispanic Studies has an excellent reputation for the quality and innovation of its teaching and research. In the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise, 55% of our research was rated 'world leading' or 'internationally excellent', and the Complete University Guide 2012 gives us 92.3 marks out of a possible 100 for our teaching.  We cover a broad range of disciplines throughout the field, including Spanish, Portuguese and Catalan literature, society and culture, Latin American studies from Mexico to Argentina and beyond, and Hispanic linguistics.   The post-holder will teach a range of modules at undergraduate and postgraduate level, supervise PhD students, engage in high quality research, undertake administrative duties and contribute fully to the life of the Department and the School.  Successful applicants will have proven skills and experience in a majority of the above areas with a record of published work appropriate to their career stage. Candidates should have (or be near to completion of) a PhD in a relevant area (or have equivalent experience). You will be committed to high quality teaching, including the teaching of Spanish and possibly Portuguese language, and to excellence in research.  Applications are particularly welcomed from candidates with a special interest in Spanish/Latin-American performance and/or visual culture.  The University of Sheffield has been named UK University of the Year in the 2011 Times Higher Education Awards. Beating five other shortlisted universities, the University was rewarded for having a strategy &quot,based on its values and rooted in its founding principles&quot,, as well as on its exceptional performance in research, teaching, access, business performance, and involvement in the local community.      Hartmut Duppel     