Lecturer in Italian
           Lecturer in Italian University of Kent - School of European Culture and Languages  Ref     HUM0178 Location     Canterbury Job Type     Academic Contract Type     Open Ended Salary Type     Per Annum Salary (£)     30870 - 44016  The Role Applications are invited for the full-time, ongoing post of Lecturer in Italian. We are seeking an academic who will teach Italian modules at all stages of the undergraduate programme and postgraduate programme, and who is capable of supervising research students. It is expected that, in due course, the appointee will become head of department and will help shape the curriculum. The successful candidate will have gained a Ph.D. prior to the date of appointment and have teaching experience at undergraduate level combined with outstanding research potential, demonstrated by publications. The appointee will be expected to make a significant contribution to the research culture in Italian and, where possible, the research centres in the School of European Culture and Languages (for example the Centre for Language and Linguistic Studies and the Centre for Modern European Literature).  The Person With a PhD or equivalent, prior to appointment, in any area of Italian language culture, you will have a strong track record of high-quality research and publication in the field of Italian studies or evidence of progress towards establishing such a record. You will also have convincing plans for future research and publication at the highest level and successful teaching at undergraduate level and a willingness to teach at MA level and supervise research students. The successful candidate will also have a record of giving research papers at conferences and seminars.  The Department The School of European Culture and Languages (SECL) is one of the largest academic schools at the University of Kent combining four modern language subjects (French, German, Italian and Hispanic Studies), English Language and Linguistics, Classical and Archaeological Studies, Comparative Literature, Philosophy and Religious Studies. It offers an extensive range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and a wide variety of research opportunities. The School is also home to six specialized research centres. Located at what is known as ‘the UK’s European university’, SECL has long standing links with some of Europe’s most prestigious institutions as well as collaborating with universities in Hong Kong and China to introduce new and exciting study and research opportunities. It is also the lead academic school at the University of Kent at Paris and is aiming to launch a specialised MA in Heritage Management in Athens in the near future.  www.kent.ac.uk/secl/italian/index.html  Further Information  Closing date for applications: 16th May 2011 Interviews are to be held: 20th June 2011  For further information and to apply on-line please visit the University of Kent's website at www.kent.ac.uk/jobs/.      Hartmut Duppel     