Principal Lecturer/ Senior Lecturer/Lecturer in French
           Principal Lecturer/ Senior Lecturer/Lecturer in French Faculty of Business Environment and Society Coventry University - Department of English and Languages  £45,156 - £56,379 or £34,611 - £49,344  or £29,856 - £36,717 pa Ref: REQ000484  You will be responsible for teaching and research, curriculum development and course management, you will support the department’s activities in undergraduate and postgraduate education.  You will need to demonstrate innovative approaches to teaching and research, ensuring that students engage with their education and emerge with skills to enhance their employability. Through your research activities, you will contribute to the department’s applied research portfolio including preparing bids, developing external networks and supervising research students. You will also be actively involved in promoting the department and the University in the UK and overseas.  As Principal Lecturer you will be an academic leader in the University, taking responsibility for the design and development of our curriculum including the implementation of new courses, methods of delivery and assessment. Your applied research portfolio will already produce work of at least a 1* - 2* (new RAE) standard and you will be working towards establishing an international profile in French. Promoting a culture of applied research within the school, you will lead the Applied Research Group/ Centre and will supervise Research Associates and Fellows.  For any of the above posts, you will have recent relevant teaching experience and a masters degree (or professional equivalent) in a relevant subject. The department currently has no plans to offer programmes in French literature and we are therefore particularly interested in expertise in French language and applied linguistics as well as a thorough understanding of France and the French-speaking world.  As Principal Lecturer you will need extensive teaching experience and a PhD (or professional equivalent).  Please visit our website at www.coventry.ac.uk/vacancies. Alternatively, you can call the Human Resources Department on 024 7688 7814 or email: futures.hr@coventry.ac.uk. Please state which level post you wish to apply for.  Closing date: 1 October 2010 Interviews: w/c 18 October 2010  If you are applying from outside the EEA, Due to recent Government policy changes on immigration, we can only accept applications from Non EEA candidates who hold Tier 1 status and are able to work and reside in the UK with no restrictions or sponsorship required.     