Lectureship (Teaching-Focused) in Interpreting (Spanish)
           0.4 Lectureship (Teaching-Focused) in Interpreting (Spanish) The University of Manchester - School of Languages, Linguistics and Cultures  The Spanish post (HUM/11957) is part of a significant expansion of the Centre for Translation and Intercultural Studies at Manchester which included the recent appointment of interpreting specialists for Arabic, Chinese and French. Previous applicants for the Spanish post will automatically be considered.  The German post (HUM/12591) provides partial cover for an absence due to maternity leave. Both posts offer an excellent opportunity for interpreter trainers to work in a dynamic and rewarding academic environment focused on high-quality postgraduate training and research in translation and interpreting.  Applications are invited from candidates who are practising conference interpreters.  Starting date: 1 September 2011  Closing date: 18/07/2011 Reference: HUM/11957  Salary £32,751 – £35,788 p.a. (pro rata) (fixed term)  Informal enquiries Dr. Maeve Olohan Director of CTIS Email: maeve.olohan@manchester.ac.uk  Documents     * Further particulars - ref HUM/11957 (PDF - 30 KB)  The University of Manchester values a diverse workforce and welcomes applications from all sections of the community.  How to apply To apply for this vacancy please download a copy of the application form either in Microsoft Word format (RTF) or as a PDF. You will need a PDF reader such as Adobe Acrobat (downloadable from Adobe) to view PDF file(s). PDF files open in a new window. Apple Mac users: please follow instructions below.      * Application form RTF     * Application form PDF     * If you are using an Apple Mac to complete your application form, please convert the RTF into a Microsoft Word Document as the functionality of an RTF form on a Mac can differ from other computers.  Please refer to the guidance notes for more information on how to apply for our vacancies:     * Guidance notes PDF  If you require copies of documentation in alternative formats, large print, Braille etc, please contact Human Resources:     * hr@manchester.ac.uk  You will need a PDF reader such as Adobe Acrobat (downloadable from Adobe) to view PDF file(s). PDF files open in a new window.  To request a hard copy Directorate of Human Resources Humanities HR Samuel Alexander Building Tel: + 44 (0) 161 275 8838 Email: Humanities-hr@manchester.ac.uk      