Part-time Research Assistant (Centre for the Study of the Cantigas de Santa Maria) (50%)
           Part-time Research Assistant (Centre for the Study of the Cantigas de Santa Maria)  University of Oxford - Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages, Centre for the Study of the Cantigas de Santa Maria  The faculty seeks to recruit a part-time (50%) Research Assistant from 1 October 2010 to work on a new critical edition of the Cantigas de Santa Maria and a Handbook of CSM Studies, under the direction of Dr Stephen Parkinson (Principal Investigator). This is part of a range of projects on the Cantigas de Santa Maria, the collection of poems in praise of the Virgin Mary composed and collected at the court of King Alfonso X of Castile, in the Centre for the Study of the Cantigas de Santa Maria, which is devoted to work on this collection. The Research Assistant will be responsible for the groundwork for and physical preparation of the critical edition, including a print anthology, and the Handbook.  The Research Assistant will also participate in the general work of the centre, including responding to enquiries, organizing seminars, attending meetings (in Oxford and Lisbon) with the Portuguese partner project, and assisting with the further development of the Cantigas de Santa Maria database.  The Research Assistant will have access to workspace and IT equipment in the Centre for the Study of the Cantigas de Santa Maria, and will be required to attend regular meetings with the Project Investigator, but will otherwise not be required to work in Oxford.  Candidates should have: a higher degree (MA or PhD) in a relevant branch of Medieval Hispanic Studies experience in manuscript transcription and critical editing knowledge of Galician-Portuguese language and literature good IT skills experience of using online databases good editorial skills and attention to detail good command of written and spoken English  This is a fixed-term post tenable for a period of not more than two years. Grade 7: Salary £28,983 - £30747 p.a. (pro rata)  Further particulars, detailing how to apply, can be seen on the Medieval and Modern Languages website at www.mod-langs.ox.ac.uk/recruitment/  or are available on request to the Recruitment Office, Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages, 41 Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JF (tel: 01865 270750, email: recruitment@mod-langs.ox.ac.uk).   Electronic applications, consisting of a letter explaining how you meet the requirements for the post, a curriculum vitae and the names and addresses of two referees, should be sent by email to recruitment@mod-langs.ox.ac.uk. The closing date for applications (in English) is noon on Wednesday 15 September 2010. It is hoped that interviews will be held in the week commencing 27 September 2010.      