Scholarships of the Leibniz Graduate School for Cultures of Knowledge in Central European Transnational Contexts
           The Herder Institute in Marburg, in collaboration with the International Graduate Centre for the Study of Culture (GCSC) and the Gießen Centre for Eastern Europe (GiZo) at the Justus Liebig University in Gießen and financed through the Initiative for Research and Innovation of the Leibniz Association, offers for a duration of two years a graduate scholarship, starting from 1st October 2012 and a postdoc scholarship, starting from 1st October 2012  The graduate programme is devoted to a fundamental problem of the transfer of knowledge, which, in spite of the successes in the educational field which have come with the expansion of the EU to the east, still remains as controversial as ever – the increasing internationalisation of research and the shift that has taken place in concepts and forms of organisation. It is particularly in Central European East-West contexts that a consensus concerning the fundamental questions about cultures of knowledge is being characterised on the one hand by innovative borrowings, and, on the other, by an obstinate persistence in national traditions and patterns of interpretation. Against this, the Leibniz Graduate School sets the concept of multilateral transfer of knowledge through dialogue.  With this in mind, the main topic focuses on the value of cultures of knowledge in an Eastern European context. A fundamental element here is the cultural-academic approach, which derives from the Herder Institute's tasks, resources and the extensive regional, national and international network of cooperation. In this light, the Leibniz Graduate School is open to all projected PhD theses that are specifically designed to make a substantive contribution to a discussion of the following topics: - European academic cultures and academic communication from the early modern period to the present: forums, networks, people, generations, forms of socialisation, political background - National and transnational categories of knowledge and intellectual styles - Pluralisation, (self-)instrumentalisation, enforced standardisation, transformation of academic institutions - Concepts and key terms in academic communication: nation, class, ethnicity, identity, gender, religion - Academic cultures in an age of globalisation and the digital world  The graduate programme is aimed at up-and-coming research students from Eastern Central Europe or other countries. German doctoral students with relevant research projects are also highly welcome.  Those awarded scholarships will be allocated to one of the research areas of the Justus Liebig University in Gießen, will be registered as students there, and will be assigned to at least one of the research areas of the GCSC, as well as one of the sections of the GiZo. They will choose at least one course of study per semester and will fulfil all its requirements. In the graduate student colloquium interim results of the individual projects will be discussed and insights into national, international and transnational and transdisciplinary cultures of knowledge presented. The language of communication and of teaching is German. The graduate scholarship amounts to 1.200 Euro, the postdoc scholarship 1.700 monthly.  Application and required documents: The selection of participants will be conducted by a committee made up of representatives of the institutions concerned. Candidates should hold an M.A. or equivalent academic degree entitling the holder to study for a PhD at a European university in subjects relevant to research in the subject area. Projects already linked to a university can be supervised in a Cotutelle programme.  All applications are to include an accompanying letter containing all contact details, a proposed project description (max. 10 pages), a CV, a list of publications and lectures, copies of certificates, report on M.A. / diploma thesis, reference from thesis supervisor, and a further reference.  Final deadline for applications: 20th August 2012 (applications submitted after this date will not be considered).  Address: Direktion, Herder Institute, Gisonenweg 5-7, D-35037 Marburg  Kontakt:	 Dr. Heidi Hein-Kircher Herder-Institut für historische Ostmitteleuropaforschung - Institut der Leibniz Gemeinschaft Gisoneneg 5-7 D-35037 Marburg e-mail: Heidi.Hein-Kircher@herder-institut.de  tel.: +49-6421-184-110     