PhD Studentship in Literature (English/Spanish)
           Applications are invited for a fully funded PhD fellowship in the Department of Literary Studies at Ghent University, tenable for a period of up to four years. The selected candidate will research historical novels written in English in the 1820s and 1830s by Spanish writers residing in London. S/he will explore how these exiles, arriving in Great Britain during the height of Sir Walter Scott's popularity, sought to inscribe their works within his new style of historical novel. The project is sponsored by a grant from the BOF (Bijzondere Onderzoeksfond) of Ghent University.  Candidates should have: - a Master's degree, licenciatura or equivalent qualification in a relevant discipline, such as Spanish, English or Comparative Literature (candidates near to completion may also submit applications, indicating the expected date of the degree), - an outstanding academic record, - excellent writing and speaking skills in English, - reading knowledge of Spanish (speaking proficiency, while not required, will be considered a plus), - aptitude for original, independent, and creative work.  Conditions of employment - The position must begin before October 31, 2012. - The applicant will be based at Ghent University in Belgium. - The net salary will be approximately 1800 EUR per month, gradually rising to approximately 2000 EUR per month in the fourth year. - The applicant will complete the doctoral training programme - www.ugent.be/doctoralschools/en/students/doctoraltrainingprogramme.htm - offered by the Doctoral School of Arts, Humanities and Law - www.ugent.be/doctoralschools/en/ahl/.  Applications should include: - a cover letter, in which you specify why you are interested in this position and why you consider yourself a suitable candidate, - a current CV, - transcripts of your qualifications to date (degrees and grade lists), - a writing sample (excerpt from your Master's thesis, article, etc.), - names and full contact details of two referees.  The application deadline is February 15, 2012 or until a suitable candidate is found. Further information about the position can be obtained from Prof. Dr. Elizabeth Amann (elizabeth.amann@ugent.be). Applications should be submitted as PDF files via email to: elizabeth.amann@ugent.be.     