W2/W3-Tenure-Track Professorship  to build up an Independent Research Group
            Das Karriereportal der Wissenschaft Logo- University of Göttingen The newly founded Courant Research Centre &quot,The Multi-layered Text Protocol: Micro and Macro Level Structures in Written Discourse&quot, at the University of Göttingen invites applications for a Tenure-Track Professorship to build up an Independent Research Group The position is available immediately, will be at the W1 salary scale (Junior Professorship), has a reduced teaching responsibility (2 hrs/wk), six years of funding to build up an Independent Research Group and a tenure-track option (W2/W3) depending on successful review after 3 and 6 years.  We are looking for young scientists with outstanding scientific qualifications as documented by research activities and publications who have earned a qualified doctoral degree within the last six years or longer if due to familial circumstances.  The main goal of the three cooperating research groups in the envisaged Courant Research Centre is to develop and to validate a multi-layered representation platform for joint interdisciplinary text analysis. Insights of theoretical linguistics and literary studies will be surveyed and tested for cross-level interpretive effects. The centre further aims at a systematic empirical exploration of the hypothesized interacting text-structural layers documented in the Text Protocol by exploiting well-established experimental methods of cognitive psychology. The centre is seeking candidates with an internationally acknowledged track record, who will complement and strengthen the existing research program.  For the first theory-oriented research group the centre is preferably seeking candidates with expertise in one or several of the following areas of linguistics: formal grammar (particularly syntax and semantics), formal pragmatics, discourse theory. A strong interest in the analysis of literary text is required.  The University of Göttingen places particular emphasis on fostering career opportunities for female scientists and scholars and therefore strongly encourages qualified women to apply. As part of its gender equality concept, the university provides special support to ease the compatibility of career and family and offers a Dual Career Service.  We explicitly welcome applications from abroad. Disabled persons with equivalent aptitude for the position will be favoured.  Applications must be submitted by 3rd of May 2009, via our online application platform at:  www.uni-goettingen.de/positions-exini  You will be required to upload a cover letter, a current CV, a publication list, an electronic version of your dissertation, your three most significant articles, information on external funding and awards, a personal research profile statement, a brief three page research plan outlining the envisaged integration into the Courant Research Centre, and the name and address of three professional references.  The selection procedure will include a symposium to be held in June 2009.  For general information on the University of Göttingen and its research profile, please refer to www.uni-goettingen.de. For further information on the Courant Research Centre, please visit www.uni-goettingen.de/crc where you can find an extract of the grant proposal, or contact Prof. Dr. Anke Holler, e-mail: crc.text@uni-goettingen.de.     