Three-year Position as Research Fellow 
           Max-Planck-Institut für Wissenschaftsgeschichte  The Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, Berlin (Max Planck Research Group on Art and Knowledge in Pre-Modern Europe, Director: Sven Dupré) seeks an outstanding scholar for a  Three-year position  starting date October 1, 2011, as Research Fellow.  Candidates should hold a doctorate in the history of science, the history of art, technical art history or related field (with a dissertation topic relevant to the history of knowledge) at the time the position begins and show evidence of scholarly promise in the form of publications and other achievements. A previous postdoctoral position is desirable.  Research projects should address the history of art and knowledge up to the 18th century (with a preference for the period between 1350 and 1750), and may concern any geographical area within Europe, and any object of art (including the decorative arts).  Research projects within the following two main areas are especially encouraged: - Artists’ optical knowledge, and the integrated history of vision and perspective - Alchemy of art, from the manufacture of paint-pigments (and its connections to colour theory) to knowledge of artists’ materials (including in the decorative arts)  Also especially encouraged are projects with a long term and transnational perspective, and which deal with the transmission of artists’ knowledge between different media.  The Max Planck Institute for the History of Science is an international and interdisciplinary research institute (http://www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/index.html). The colloquium language is English, it is expected that candidates will be able to present their own work and discuss that of others fluently in that language.  The position is primarily devoted to research, with no teaching and minimal administrative duties. It is ranked at the BAT IIA level in the German system, which roughly corresponds to that of Lecturer in Britain, Assistant Professor in North America, and Maître de conferences in France. Salary is set by both the position’s rank and individual factors, please address specific questions to Ms. Claudia Paass (paass@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de).  For questions concerning the Max Planck Research Group on Art and Knowledge in Pre-Modern Europe, please see www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/MRGdupre or contact Sven Dupré (dupre@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de), for administrative questions concerning the position and the Institute, please contact Jochen Schneider (jsr@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de). Scholars of all nationalities are welcomed to apply, applications from women are especially welcomed. The Max Planck Society is committed to employing more handicapped individuals and encourages them to apply.  Finalists for the position will be informed by April 10, 2011 and asked to come for an interview on April 26, 2011 (travel expenses covered by the Institute).  (Electronic submission is also possible: paass@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de) by April 1, 2011.  Candidates are requested to submit a curriculum vitae (including list of publications), a research proposal on a topic related to the project (1000 words maximum), two samples of writing (i.e. article or book chapter). They should arrange to have three referees send letters of recommendation under separate cover to:  Max-Planck-Institut für Wissenschaftsgeschichte Administration, NWG-Wimi Boltzmanstr. 22 14195 Berlin Germany  E-Mail: paass@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de E-Mail: dupre@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de E-Mail: jsr@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/index.html www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/MRGdupre 