Tenure-track Assistant Professor Position in Italian Studies (Montréal)
           The Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at McGill University invites applications for a tenure-track assistant professor position in Italian Studies from scholars with expertise in one or more of the following areas: the Italian theatrical tradition (including opera and commedia dell’arte) and the relation between dramatic performance and cultural history, Italian intellectual and social history, and/or visual culture and its relation to literature in Italy.  Candidates must demonstrate competitive research and publication records, substantial teaching experience, and a strong potential for collaborative research and program development across media, disciplines, and cultures.  Italian Studies at McGill is part of a growing multidisciplinary unit offering courses and programs in German, Italian, Russian, and Spanish languages, literatures, cultures, thought, cinemas, and digital humanities. We are seeking applications from emerging scholars who approach their field from a wide cultural perspective. The successful candidate should be prepared to teach a broad range of courses in Italian Studies on the undergraduate level and graduate courses in their area of specialization.  Ph.D. in hand in Italian Studies (or appropriate equivalent) and native or near-native fluency in Italian and English are required. Knowledge of French is an asset. McGill is a research intensive university and teaching duties include four courses a year. Appointment is expected to begin August 1, 2012.  Applicants must fill out the online application form available at www.mcgill.ca/langlitcultures/employment/italian-search-application-form. A letter of introduction containing a statement of how the applicant’s research will contribute to the department’s interdisciplinary and intercultural trajectory, cv, teaching portfolio, and 10-20 page writing sample should be submitted electronically via email to search.italian@mcgill.ca. Three letters of recommendation should be sent under separate cover (electronically or hardcopy) to:  Professor Karin Bauer, Chair, Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, McGill University, 688 Sherbrooke St. West, room 425, Montreal, QC H3A 3R1. Email: search.italian@mcgill.ca. Application deadline is November 5, 2011.  In accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, all qualified candidates are encouraged to apply, however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority. McGill University is committed to equity in employment and diversity. It welcomes applications from indigenous peoples, visible minorities, ethnic minorities, persons with disabilities, women, persons of minority sexual orientations and gender identities and others who may contribute to further diversification.     