Two Lectureships in Italian
           Two Lectureships in Italian - University of Leeds - Arts  Job Summary: Fixed term for 2 years  We welcome applications from specialists in any areas of Italian studies, although preference may be given to those with expertise in the early modern or modern/contemporary periods.  One of the appointees will be expected to spend 20 per cent of her/his time as a research assistant to Professor Claire Honess, Head of School. Since Professor Honess works on medieval studies, a willingness to carry out research assistance in this area is desirable, although it need not constitute the principal focus of the appointee's research activity.  Both posts will cover undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in Italian in general, as well as specialist modules within their areas of research expertise. An ability to supervise research students is desirable.  You will have a PhD within the field of Italian studies and relevant teaching experience. Your recent and/or forthcoming publications will indicate an ability to make a distinctive contribution to research activity commensurate with inclusion in the forthcoming Research Excellence Framework. You should be able to contribute to research activity in the broader School of Modern Languages and Cultures through membership of one or more of its cross-language research groups. You will also be expected to undertake administrative tasks as required.  There will be a formal university interview for this post. You will also be required to make a presentation to the School about your research and/or teaching.  More information about Italian can be found at www.leeds.ac.uk/italian  University Grade 7 (£32,901 - £35,938 p.a.)  Informal enquiries to Professor Claire Honess, tel +44 (0)113 343 3631, email C.E.Honess@leeds.ac.uk or Dr Gigliola Sulis, tel 44 (0)113 343 3639, email G.Sulis@leeds.ac.uk  Closing Date: 10 June 2012 (Redeployment Closing Date: 25 May 2012) Interviews to be held on: 21 June 2012     