5-year Research Fellowships (14 TV-L)
           The University of Konstanz belongs to the universities in Germany whose &quot,Future concepts for top-class research at universities&quot, is promoted within the framework of the Exzellence Initiative of the German federal and state governments.  The Zukunftskolleg is a central scientific institution of the University of Konstanz for the promotion of young researchers in the natural sciences, humanities and social sciences, and is an integral component of the institutional strategy “Modell Konstanz — Towards a Culture of Creativity.” The Zukunftskolleg forms a platform for interdisciplinary discourse between distinguished researchers in Germany and abroad, and provides them with resources for obtaining extramural funding.  The Zukunftskolleg of the University of Konstanz offers up to five  5-year Research Fellowships (any discipline represented at the University of Konstanz) (Salary Scale 14 TV-L) Kennziffer 2012/109  to develop and implement individual research projects. This call for applications is financed by the German Research Foundation (DFG) and the University of Konstanz.  The fellowships will begin on March 1, 2013, and end on February 28, 2018.  The Zukunftskolleg provides a professional infrastructure and an appropriate workplace for conducting research. Fellows have the opportunity to benefit from a variety of career development measures, including the University of Konstanz’s Academic Staff Development and Research Support offices. Fellows may nominate recognized experts in their field of research as senior fellows, who will be invited to Konstanz for a research stay of one to nine months. Each fellow receives a research allowance. Furthermore, a pool is available for funding cooperative projects, research assistants, travel and equipment purchases. Each fellow is a member of both a university department and the Zukunftskolleg. A Mentoring Committee supports each fellow in her/his career development. This committee consists of an experienced researcher from the fellow’s research field within the university department as well as an advanced Research Fellow of the Zukunftskolleg.  The target group consists of researchers with significant work experience at the postdoctoral level, leadership abilities and a capacity for teamwork, so that they can reasonably be expected to take up leading roles in academia and European research and innovation policy. They must already have secured a research grant of at least 50,000 € an equivalent amount of funding. Candidates with their own position funded by another program are highly welcome. International experience in teaching or research and a strong interest in interdisciplinary topics are desirable. The University of Konstanz encourages researchers to resume their careers after any interruptions, as extra-academic experiences are respected and appreciated as potentially beneficial to the community of fellows.  Candidates must submit a research outline on the proposed work to be undertaken at the Zukunftskolleg. A topical connection between the project and the research profile of the University of Konstanz is expected. In addition, all ethical issues raised by a proposed project (if applicable) must be described in the project outline. Fellows have an opportunity to teach. They are expected to participate actively in the regular weekly meetings of the Zukunftskolleg and to have their place of residence in Konstanz.  Fellows are selected on the basis of their academic excellence, project outlines, personal aptitude with regard to leadership and team skills, and the topical connection to the research profile of the University of Konstanz. Applications are evaluated in a three-stage process: 1. Eligibility check and pre-selection based on the written application. 2. Further selection based on independent peer reviews. 3. Personal assessment of the remaining candidates by the Recruitment Committee in the interdisciplinary Workshop on Future Research Directions, to be held at the University of Konstanz in January 2013. Candidates will be informed of the final decision and the evaluation of their own strengths and weaknesses approximately one week after the workshop. If a proposed project that has passed the peer review stage raises any ethical issues, it is forwarded for review by the University of Konstanz Ethics Committee.  More information on the Zukunftskolleg and current fellows, as well as a special section devoted to the application and selection process (application forms, guidelines on eligibility, evaluation criteria, the timeline and the stages of the selection process) are available on our website at: www.zukunftskolleg.uni-konstanz.de.  The University of Konstanz has been certified by the Hertie Foundation to be a family-friendly institution. The University is committed to further the compatibility of work and family life.  The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity employer and tries to increase the number of women in research and teaching.  The University of Konstanz encourages disabled persons to apply. They will be given preference if appropriately qualified (contact +49 (0)7531/88–4895).  The University of Konstanz offers a „Dual Career Program“. Information can be obtained from: www.uni-konstanz.de/dcc .  To submit your application, please send us the completed Fellowship Application Form, see: www.zukunftskolleg.uni-konstanz.de/en/funding-programmes/fellowship/fellowship-applicationform/ together with one separate pdf file, which must include: 1) A statement of motivation (1 page), 2) The project outline (6 pages max.), 3) Curriculum vitae, 4) Relevant degree certificates and 5) A publication/writing sample (30 pages max.). Applicants are encouraged to check their eligibility before submitting their proposal.  Both application files should be submitted in English before August 27, 2012, to: zukunftskolleg@uni-konstanz.de with the reference number 2012/109 in the subject line of the e-mail.  Contact: Anda Lohan LLM, e-mail: Anda.Lohan@uni-konstanz.de , Tel.: +49(0)7531/88–4821.     