Applications for desiguALdades.net Scholarships (doctoral and postdoctoral scholarships)
           desiguALdades.net developed by Lateinamerika-Institut of the Freie Universität Berlin and Ibero-Amerikanisches Institut of the Stiftung Preussischer Kulturbesitz: Applications for desiguALdades.net Scholarships  The deadline for application is August 1, 2010. www.desigualdades.net/bilder/call_for_applications_new.pdf  At the present time, desiguALdades.net awards the following scholarships: (1) postdoctoral scholarships for a research stay at desiguALdades.net with a duration from 6 to 24 months depending on the scope of the research project (max. Euro 1,500 monthly). (2) short-term scholarships for doctoral students for a research stay at desiguALdades.net with a duration of six months (max. Euro 1,300 monthly).  The next major call for applications for long-term scholarships for doctoral students for a research stay at desiguALdades.net with a duration of three years is expected to be in spring 2011.  Please be aware of our two-step application process: in a first step you will have to apply online (postdocs/doctoral students), in a second step you will have to send the required documents in one single PDF-file to contacto@desiguALdades.net. Only after receiving your documents in PDF-format, your application can be taken into consideration.  desiguALdades.net is looking forward to applications from a broad spectrum of the social sciences participating in the network. The individual research projects should directly contribute to the research concept of the network. Applications made by researchers from outside Germany are especially welcome. The Freie Universität Berlin is an equal-opportunity/affirmative action employer. Women and persons with disabilities are particularly encouraged to apply. Successful applicants should reside in Berlin for the duration of the scholarship.  The projects proposed by scholarship applicants shall explicitly address transregional dimensions and interdependencies of phenomena of social inequality in Latin America. The research concept provides a brief overview over the main research questions and objectives of desiguALdades.net and serves as an orientation for scholarship applicants for developing projects in line with the network's research foci. Once they have been selected, doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers will closely work together with experienced international researchers from the network.      