Associate Lecturers in Spanish (Education and Scholarship)
           Associate Lecturers in Spanish (Education and Scholarship) University of Exeter - Department of Modern Languages  College of Humanities  (Ref: R11237/P43403)  Grade E, £24,520 (pro rata)  The College wishes to recruit three 0.60% Associate Lecturers (Education and Scholarship) to assist with delivery of Spanish language credit-rated modules. The posts are available from 1st September 2012.  The post will include supporting the student learning experience using a range of approaches and modes of delivery appropriate to the teaching allocated, specifically Spanish language teaching from beginner to advanced level and the standard departmental allocation of administration. Details of these modules can be found at humanities.exeter.ac.uk/modernlanguages/hispanicstudies/undergraduate/spanishmodules/  The successful applicant will be a completely fluent in Spanish with an excellent command of English, with experience of teaching language classes which form part of specialist HE/FE language programmes at all levels, and with experience of designing, setting and marking appropriate assessment components. S/he will be familiar with a variety of strategies to promote and assess language learning. The applicant will be able to work collaboratively as part of a team. Staff at this level are expected to achieve Associate Fellow of the HEA within two years of appointment (if not already achieved) and to attend formal Continuous Professional Development courses relating to this.  For further information please contact Dr Sonia Cunico, e-mail s.cunico@ex.ac.uk or telephone (01392) 724227.  Salary will be £24,520 on Grade E (point 23) pro rata.    The closing date for completed applications is 30th May 2012.  The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity employer which is 'Positive About Disabled People': if you have a disability, you should mention this in your application. Whilst all applicants will be judged on merit alone, we particularly welcome applications from groups currently underrepresented in the workforce.  HOW TO APPLY FOR THIS POSITION: Please send your completed application and equal opportunities form to completed application and equal opportunities form, CV and covering letter to Laura Newberry in the Dean's Office (humanities-deans-office@exeter.ac.uk), quoting the reference number R11237/P43403 in any correspondence.  To download the application and equal opportunities form please follow the below links,  www.admin.ex.ac.uk/personnel/jobs/app_form.rtf www.admin.ex.ac.uk/personnel/jobs/EO_form.rtf 