Associate Lecturer in Italian (Education and Scholarship)
           Associate Lecturer in Italian (Education and Scholarship) University of Exeter - Department of Modern Languages  College of Humanities  Ref. No: R11236/P43407  £24,520 per annum on Grade E (point 23) pro rata.  This part-time post is available from 1st September 2012 on a permanent basis.  The College wishes to recruit a 0.67% Associate Lecturer (Education and Scholarship) to assist with delivery of Italian language credit-rated modules.  The post will include supporting the student learning experience using a range of approaches and modes of delivery appropriate to the teaching allocated, specifically Italian language teaching from beginner to advanced level and the standard departmental allocation of administration. Details of these modules can be found at humanities.exeter.ac.uk/modernlanguages/italian/undergraduate/modules/  The successful applicant will be fluent in Italian with excellent command of English, with experience of teaching language classes which form part of specialist HE/FE language programmes at all levels, and with experience of designing, setting and marking appropriate assessment components. S/he will be familiar with a variety of strategies to promote and assess language learning. The applicant will be able to work collaboratively as part of a team. Staff at this level are expected to achieve Associate Fellow of the HEA within two years of appointment (if not already achieved) and to attend formal Continuous Professional Development courses relating to this.  For further information please contact Dr Sonia Cunico, e-mail s.cunico@ex.ac.uk or telephone (01392) 724227.  The closing date for completed applications is 30 May 2012.  The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity employer which is 'Positive About Disabled People': if you have a disability, you should mention this in your application. Whilst all applicants will be judged on merit alone, we particularly welcome applications from groups currently underrepresented in the workforce.     