CfA: Language Fair for European minority language communities
           The Interdisciplinary Centre for Social and Language Documentation (CIDLeS) cordially invites all the European minority language communities to participate in the Language Fair – a socio-cultural 2-day event which aims at getting the general public acquainted with linguistic diversity in Europe, mainly its endangered/minority languages (including those spoken by immigrants). Therefore, this event focuses on discussion and social, intercultural and scientific exchange between different communities that speak endangered/minority languages, on the promotion of their cultural and linguistic heritage, as well as on the presentation of modern bands that perform in their native languages.  There are three different ways for a community to participate in the Language Fair: with an exhibition stand, with a cultural performance or both. In this sense, each community will be able to have a stand to exhibit its own language (for instance through literary and scientific works, films, CDs, DVDs, posters, etc. excepting food), as well as to present the language in a 20-to-30-minute cultural performance (theater sketch, traditional music, cinema, dance, recitation, etc.). The bands will perform in the evening (October 18th and 19th) and their performance will be part of the Endangered Languages Music Festival that will be launched during this event. The Language Fair aims above all to give the voice to the speakers of minority languages in Europe in diverse ways.  The Language Fair will take place at an old textile factory in Minde – Fábrica Emídio da Silva Raposo. This factory is emblematic of the socioeconomic history of Minde and is intrinsically related to the genesis of Minderico, an endangered language (ISO 639-3 [drc]) spoken in Minde since the end of the 17th century. Minderico emerged as a sociolect, the secret language of a socio-professional group, in this case the blanket producers and traders of Minde. But it rapidly developed into a full-fledged language and became a medium of everyday communication in Minde, used by the whole community. Minderico has approximately 150 active speakers (who use the language daily) and 1000 passive speakers (those who understand the language but do not speak it), its existence is currently seriously endangered.  The Language Fair will close the general event dedicated to the endangered languages in Europe which takes place in Minde and includes the International Conference on Endangered Languages in Europe (October 17th and 18th, www.cidles.eu/events/conference-ele-2013/) and the Endangered Languages Music Festival (October 18th and 19th).  CALL FOR COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION There are three types of participation in the Language Fair: with stand, with cultural performance or with both. According to the kind of participation chosen, the participation description should include the following information:  Participation with stand: a) Brief description of the language community (language, number of speakers, location) b) Number of people participating in the stand c) Technical requisites for the stand  Participation with cultural performance: a) Brief description of the language community (language, number of speakers, location) b) Number of people participating in the cultural performance c) Summary of the cultural performance d) Technical requisites for the performance  Participation with stand and cultural performance: a) Brief description of the language community (language, number of speakers, location) b) Number of people participating in the stand and in the cultural performance c) Summary of the cultural performance d) Technical requisites for the exhibition stand and the performance  The descriptions should be no longer than two A4 pages. The event accepts all the languages in Europe as working languages. However, for intelligibility and dissemination reasons we recommend the use of English. Please send your participation description to ele2013@cidles.eu  IMPORTANT DATES Deadline for submission of community participation description: May 31st, 2013 Notification of acceptance: June 30th, 2013 Registration deadline for participating communities: August 31st, 2013  Event Dates: Conference: October 17th-18th, 2013 Language Fair: October 18th-19th, 2013 Endangered Languages Music Festival: October 18th-19th, 2013  For more information please contact ele2013@cidles.eu.     