2 x Lecturers in Spanish
           2 x Lecturers in Spanish - Part time (0.5 FTE) University of Roehampton - Department of Media, Culture and Language  Ref No: HR 07/12 Salary: £36,301 to £39,338 p.a. inc, pro-rata  The Director of the Centre for Language Studies is looking to appoint two 0.5 FTE Lecturers to prepare, deliver and assess Spanish language courses at all levels.  The post holders are expected to work 17.5 hours per week which will include up to 10 hours of teaching per week (daytime and/or evening, as part of Modern Languages and the University-wide Languages For All programme) and tutorials.  Ideal candidates will have the ability to plan and deliver effective and stimulating teaching, prepare and mark assessments, and foster skills and confidence in students from a diverse range of social and cultural backgrounds.  They should also have the capacity to organise, and a willingness to be involved in, the day-to-day management and administration of the Spanish programme, including recruitment and admission of students, coordination of Year Abroad activities, committees and quality assurance processes as required.  Applicants should also have native or near-native competence in Spanish, and a high level of competence in English, as well as a commitment to interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary work in Languages.  The University of Roehampton is set on a beautiful, traditional campus in south-west London. The University provides its students with exceptional facilities, high quality teaching and a close-knit, collegiate experience.  Roehampton has a diverse student body and a cosmopolitan outlook, with students from over 130 countries.  The University is committed to a strong research culture, with two of its departments ranked the best in the country. Roehampton is on an ambitious trajectory and seeks to build on its increasing popularity by developing an innovative and distinctive portfolio.  Please quote reference:  HR 07/12 Please note that CVs alone will not be considered. Closing date, no later than 5.00pm: Monday 26 March 2012    Due to the Easter break interviews will be held on: Monday 30 April 2012    Application forms and links to the Post Information Pack can be found on our website: www.roehampton.ac.uk/Human-Resources/Job-Opportunities/  Hartmut Duppel     