Call for Panel Proposals: "Trends in Toponymy 5"
           The conference provides an international forum for current issues of and recent advances in diachronic and synchronic toponymic research. The aim is to bring together researchers and graduate students working within the domains of linguistics, onomastics, geography and related disciplines. The conference language is English.  Papers should address issues of particular importance in place names research. For instance, we would be interested in papers exploring such topics as: - epistemology of toponomastics - language and name contact in multilingual societies and at language boundaries - name theory with an emphasis on toponyms - typologies of toponymic systems - collection and documentation of place names - social attitudes towards place names and naming  - practices in past and present - toponyms in discourse and conversation - new approaches to place name research - visualisation of toponymic data via Geographic Information Systems.  Of course this is just a sample of topics, we hope to include a wide variety of papers on diachronic and synchronic research on place names.  Keynote speakers: Richard Coates (University of the West of England Bristol) Wolfgang Haubrichs (Universität des Saarlandes, Saarbrücken) Peter Jordan (Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien) Lorenza Mondada (Université Lumière Lyon)  Submissions: Deadline for panel proposals: September 30, 2011 Notification of panel acceptance/refusal: October 22, 2011  Deadline for paper and poster abstracts: November 30, 2011 Notification of paper and poster acceptance/refusal: February 15, 2012  Registration: Advance online registration: February 15, 2012 – April 15, 2012 Regular online registration: April 16, 2012 – June 3, 2012  Programme: Deadline for online modifications to abstracts: March 11, 2012. Provisional programme: beginning of March, 2012. Final programme: middle of June, 2012.  Participants whose paper/poster abstract has been accepted MUST register online before June 3, 2012 to be included in the final conference programme.     