6 Postdoctoral Fellowships (Stanford)
           Stanford University invites applications for postdoctoral fellowships in the Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship of Scholars in the Humanities, a unique opportunity for the best recent Ph.D. recipients in the humanities to develop as scholars and teachers. Up to six fellowships will be awarded for a two-year term. Fellows will teach two courses per year in one of Stanford's fifteen humanities departments, and are expected to participate in the intellectual life of the program, which includes regular meetings with other fellows and faculty to share work in progress and discuss topics of mutual interest. It is expected that Fellows will be in residence during the term of their appointment. Fellows will also be affiliated with the Stanford Humanities Center and will have the opportunity to be active in its intellectual life.  Eligible fields for the 2009-10 competition (for fellowships beginning in 2010): Asian Languages, Comparative Literature, French and Italian, German Studies, Linguistics, Slavic Languages and Literatures, Iberian and Latin American Literatures and Cultures  Candidates for this year's competition must have received their Ph.D. degree  between January 1, 2007 and June 30, 2010. Fellowships will begin on September 1, 2010.  The stipend for 2010-2011 will be approximately $55,000, and compensation will include additional support for computer assistance, research, and relocation expenses, depending on the individual Fellow's needs.  Online applications open Thursday, September 17, 2009.  Deadline: Applications must be postmarked by Friday, November 20, 2009. Please complete our web-based application form at fellows.stanford.edu. Once you have submitted your application form on-line, please submit hard copies of the following materials to the address below: * Cover letter (circa one page) describing your research and teaching interests to an interdisciplinary search committee  * Curriculum vitae  * Dissertation abstract (up to three pages)   PLEASE NOTE: Applicants in Linguistics are expected to submit a research statement (up to three pages) in addition to, or in lieu of, a dissertation abstract.  * A sample of written work (article length, no longer than 40 pages)  * A separate description of teaching experience and interests (up to three pages)  Note: Courses will be offered through standing Stanford departments, applicants  should familiarize themselves with recent course offerings and department curricula.   * Three confidential letters of recommendation (or the applicant's active graduate school dossier) Faxed or electronic application materials cannot be considered. Send all materials to:  Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship of Scholars in the Humanities Stanford Humanities Center 424 Santa Teresa St. Stanford, CA 94305-4015  Only complete applications will be considered. All applications will be acknowledged. The selection committee will meet in December and January. Finalists may be interviewed. Successful applicants will be informed by March, 2010.      