Ausschreibung 2011/2012: European Institutes for Advanced Study (EURIAS) fellowship Programme for humanities and social sciences
           Ausschreibung 2011/2012: European Institutes for Advanced Study (EURIAS) fellowship Programme for humanities and social sciences  RFIEA foundation, 14 european cities / 12 countries, 01.06.2010-10.09.2010  2011-2012 EURIAS FELLOWSHIP  The European Institutes for Advanced Study (EURIAS) Fellowship Programme is an international researcher mobility programme offering 33 fellowships for the 2011-2012 academic year. It proposes 10-month residencies in one of the 14 participating Institutes:  BERLIN, BOLOGNA, BRUSSELS, BUCHAREST, BUDAPEST, CAMBRIDGE, HELSINKI, JERUSALEM, LYONS, NANTES, PARIS, UPPSALA, VIENNA, WASSENAAR.  The Programme builds on the strong reputation of the Institutes for Advanced Study for promoting the concentrated, self-directed work of excellent researchers within the stimulating environment of a multi-disciplinary and international group of fellows.  EURIAS Fellowships are mainly offered in the fields of the humanities and social sciences but may also be granted to scholars in natural and exact sciences, if their proposed research project does not require laboratory facilities. The diversity of the 14 participating IAS - which have agreed on a common selection procedure - offers a wide range of possible research contexts in Europe for worldwide scholars. Applicants select up to three IAS outside their country of nationality or residence as possible host institutions. The Programme welcomes applications worldwide from promising scholars at an early stage of their careers as well as from established senior researchers.  TERMS AND CONDITIONS  Fellows will benefit from the high-quality research environment and working conditions provided by the host Institute. All IAS have agreed on common standards, including : - a living allowance (in the range of EUR 26,000 for a junior and EUR 38,000 for a senior fellow) - accommodation (or a mobility allowance) - a research budget - travel expenses.  APPLICATION AND DEADLINE  Applications are submitted online via www.eurias-fp.eu You will find detailed information regarding the content of the application, eligibility criteria, selection procedure, etc.  The deadline for application is September 10th 2010. Late applications will not be considered.  SELECTION PROCEDURE  - Scientific assessment by two international referees - Preselection by EURIAS international and multi-disciplinary Scientific Committee - Final selection by the IAS academic boards - Publication of results in December 2010.  For further information on the Programme, please consult our website: www.eurias-fp.eu For further information on the IAS and their working conditions: www.eurias-fp.eu/ias  Mylène Trouvé Fondation RFIEA 54 boulevard Raspail 75006 PARIS - FRANCE mylene.trouve@eurias-fp.eu www.eurias-fp.eu 