Carnegie Chair in French
           Carnegie Chair in French University of Aberdeen -College of Arts &amp, Social Sciences  School / Section: School of Language &amp, Literature  Discipline / Area: French  Position Type: Full-time  University Grade Structure: Salary: A Highly Competative renumeration package will be available for exceptional candidates.  Job Summary: The School of Language and Literature at the University of Aberdeen invites applications for the Carnegie Chair of French. French at Aberdeen has a distinguished record of research achievement, having been rated in the top five in the UK in the last two RAE exercises. The School has a strong interdisciplinary culture, given focus by a number of research centres – the Centre for Modern Thought, the Centre for Early Modern Studies, The Centre for the Novel, The Centre for the History and Philosophy of Science, Technology and Medicine – which involve researchers from a wide variety of disciplines, both within the School and across the University more broadly.  We would be particularly interested in applications from scholars who can contribute not only to Francophone literature and culture but to strengthening this interdisciplinary culture, by contributing to other areas of the School’s activities, such as Linguistics, Comparative Literature or Film and Visual Culture.  Applicants should have a distinguished record of publication, and a strong national or international research profile commensurate with their experience. As well as carrying out teaching, research and administrative duties in French, the successful candidates may be expected to participate in our Masters degrees (M.Litts) in Comparative Literature and/or Visual Culture, and may also be involved in teaching the cross-School programme in ‘Literature in a World Context’.  Should you require a visa to undertake paid employment in the UK you will be required to fulfil the minimum points criteria to be granted a Certificate of Sponsorship and Tier 2 visa. As appropriate, at the time an offer of appointment is made you will be asked to demonstrate that you fulfil the criteria in respect of financial maintenance and competency in English. Please do not hesitate to contact Sharon Cassidy, HR Adviser (s.cassidy@abdn.ac.uk), for further information on this.  A highly competitive remuneration package will be available for exceptional candidates. The start date is negotiable.    Informal enquiries are welcome and should be made to Professor Cairns Craig (07900 221289, e-mail (cairns.craig@abdn.ac.uk).  Online application forms and further information is available at www.abdn.ac.uk/jobs.  Please quote reference LAN021A on all correspondence.  The closing date for the receipt of applications is 8 March 2013.  Promoting Diversity and Equal Opportunities throughout the University     