10 International Research Fellowships (International Research Center for "Work and Human Life Cycle in Global History")
           Humboldt- Universität zu Berlin Call for Applications  The International Research Center for &quot,Work and Human Life Cycle in Global History&quot, at the Humboldt University Berlin and funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) invites scholars to apply for 10 International Research Fellowships (5 stipends for senior scholars and 5 stipends for postdoctoral candidates) for the 2010-2011 academic year as well as for future academic years. Applications are due in Berlin on March 15, 2010.  Candidates: We welcome candidates especially from the disciplines of history, anthropology, law, sociology, political science, and area studies. Applicants should be at the postdoctoral level or senior scholars. Postdoctoral candidates should have received their doctorate within the last five years. Proposed projects should employ a historical and transregional perspective. The project should focus not only on work/labor, but on lifecycle as well. We particularly welcome proposals with an emphasis placed on Europe, Africa, und Asia and especially those that look at the entanglements between these regions. The fellowships begin on October 1, 2010 and end on July 31, 2011. Shorter fellowship terms will be possible.  Fellows will receive a monthly stipend, which can be individually negotiated. They are obliged to work at the International Research Center in Berlin. A fully equipped office will be provided as well as organizational help for visa, housing, etc. We encourage fellows to introduce their work to wider audiences in the scientific community in Berlin.  Application procedure: To apply, please send the following documents exclusively by e-mail as an MS-Word document or PDF File in English: 1. A curriculum vitae 2. A project description no longer than 5 pages 3. A statement of up to 1,000 words about current research relevant to the program's theme 3. Postdocs only: The names and addresses (incl. e-mail) of two referees  Application deadline: March 15, 2010  For further information, please contact Dr. Felicitas Hentschke (Telefon: +49 30/2093-70206, F: -70210, e-mail: rework@asa.hu-berlin.de), or, visit the website at www2.hu-berlin.de/rework/.  Please send your application to: Professor Dr. Andreas Eckert Humboldt- Universität zu Berlin  IKG Arbeit und Lebenslauf in globalgeschichtlicher Perspektive Unter den Linden 6 10099 Berlin Germany     