6 PHD Stipends: Anthropological Knowledge ("Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge - Production and Transfer")
           Mercator Research Group/Ruhr-Universität Bochum  The Mercator Research Group &quot,Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge&quot, invites applications for up to six PHD Stipends: Anthropological Knowledge  The four areas of study are:  A. History of life sciences and anthropology since the late 19th century, case studies on research practices, conceptual transfers or philosophical and cultural representations of the human  B. Literature and anthropological knowledge around 1900 and research on the history of case studies, production and circulation of textbook knowledge, epistemic writing  C. Media studies with expertise in media history or media-cultural analysis and interests in the history of psychology  D. Ethnographic studies in cultural psychology/science &amp, technology studies, focus on knowledge of the effects of violent media on children and their circulation among diverse areas in society  The Mercator Research Group &quot,Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge - Production and Transfer&quot, investigates the production and circulation of knowledge from mid 19th century to today. It focuses on the effects of the introduction of media, technologies and forms of epistemic writing into the science of the human. The interdisciplinary team comprises scholars from History of Science, Literature Studies, Media Studies, and Cultural Psychology.  Stiftung Mercator Stiftung Mercator is one of Germany's largest foundations. It initiates and funds projects that promote better educational opportunities in schools and universities. In the spirit of Gerhard Mercator, it supports initiatives that embody the idea of open-mindedness and tolerance through intercultural encounters, sharing of knowledge and culture. The foundation provides a platform for new ideas to enable people - regardless of their national, cultural or social background-to develop their personality, become involved in society and make the most of the opportunities available to them.  Ruhr-Universität Bochum RUB The Ruhr-Universität Bochum is one of Germany's leading research universities. The University draws its strengths from both the diversity and the proximity of scientific and engineering disciplines on a single, coherent campus. This highly dynamic setting enables students and researchers to work across traditional boundaries of academic subjects and faculties. Host to 32,600 students and 4,700 staff, the Ruhr-Universität is a vital institution in the Ruhr area, which has been selected as European Capital of Culture for the year 2010.  For full details see www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/mrg/knowledge. Please address inquiries to Prof. Christina Brandt (A), Prof. Yvonne Wübben (B), Prof. Anna Tuschling (C), Prof. Estrid Sørensen (D). To apply, send CV, project outline and contact information of two referees to mrg2@rub.de until October 14, 2010. The Ruhr-Universität Bochum is committed to equal opportunity. We strongly encourage applications from women and persons with disabilities. E-Mail: mrg2@rub.de www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/mrg/knowledge 