3 Postdoctoral Research Fellowships: "Oral Culture, Manuscript And Print In Early Modern Italy, 1450 -1700"
           Postdoctoral Research Fellowships Oral Culture, Manuscript And Print In Early Modern Italy, 1450 -1700 University of Leeds - Modern Languages &amp, Cultures  Reference Number ARTML0004  Faculty / Service: Arts Staff Category: Academic Grade University: Grade 7 Contract Type: Fixed Term  Location Leeds - Main Campus  Four years fixed term, starting 1 June 2011  The Department of Italian invites applications for three Postdoctoral Research Fellowships within a project funded by the European Research Council.  The project, whose Principal Investigator is Professor Brian Richardson, will investigate how oral culture in early modern Italy related to written culture and how far it was independent of writing. It will focus on four areas: social performance, politics, religion, and linguistic usage. Research will encompass spaces such as courts, council chambers, churches, academies, towns, the countryside, and households, men and women of all social classes, and contexts including ceremonial and ritual events, oratory, public and private performance, and scripted and improvised entertainments. It will also study the cultural functions of the exceptionally wide spectrum of languages used throughout the peninsula.  You will carry out research on one of the following areas, which will be allocated by the Principal Investigator after consultation:     1. The performance of literary texts in non-elite culture, by professional performers and others    2. The preaching of orthodox and reformed religious thought    3. The functions and status of the varieties of language used in Italian oral culture  You will be expected to have obtained or expect to shortly obtain a PhD with specialisation in an aspect of Italian Studies, and have experience of studying Renaissance/early modern Italian culture and/or history.  Information about the Department of Italian can be found at www.leeds.ac.uk/italian/.  Applicants are asked in addition to their standard application to submit a CV.  University Grade 7 (£29,972 - £35,788 p.a) It is likely that an appointment will be made no higher than £31,798 p.a. since there are funding limitations which dictate the level at which the appointment can start.  Informal enquiries may be made to Professor Brian Richardson, tel +44 (0)113 343 3632, email b.f.richardson@leeds.ac.uk.     