CfP: 54 INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF AMERICANISTS  "BUILDING DIALOGUES IN THE AMERICAS" 
           The Organizing Committee invites scholars to participate in the 54 ICA to be held in Vienna, Austria, in July 2012.  With the aim to promote an exchange and a sharing of insights, questions, methods, and viewpoints in order to foster dynamic dialogues, we have chosen as our general theme BUILDING DIALOGUES IN THE AMERICAS. We wish to promote self-reflection and encourage trans-disciplinary dialogues. We invite proposals for papers that seek to draw conjunctions between disciplines, subfields, theories and methods.  After a highly successful response to our call for symposia, we are glad to announce more than 460 symposia organized along 16 thematic areas which are now open for proposals for papers from 15 April until 31 August 2011! In line with the general theme, symposia are marked by a vibrant diversity of ontological, epistemological, and methodological issues.  Pre-approved symposia:  1. Archeology / Arqueología / Arqueologia 2. Cultural Studies / Estudios Culturales / Estudos culturais    3. Economics / Economía / Economia 4. Educational Studies / Estudios Educativos / Educação    5. Gender Studies / Estudios de Género / Estudos de gênero    6. History / Historia / História 7. Human Rights / Derechos Humanos / Direitos humanos    8. Linguistics, Literature and Media / Lingüística, Literatura y Medios / Linguística, literatura e mídia   9. Philosophy / Filosofía 10. Biological Anthropology / Antropología Biológica / Antropologia biológica    11. Politics and State Transformation / Política y Transformación del Estado / Política e transformação do Estado 12. Postcolonial Studies / Estudios Postcoloniales / Estudos pós-coloniais     13. Religious Studies / Estudios Religiosos / Religião   14. Social and Cultural Anthropology / Antropología Social y Cultural / Antropologia social e cultural   15. Socio-Ecological Crisis, Environmental and Resource Politics / Crisis Socio-ecológica, Ambiental y Política de Recursos / Crise sócio-ecológica, políticas ambientais e de recursos 16. Innovative Symposia / Simposios Innovadores / Simpósios Invadores  Within the framework of these pre-approved symposia, we invite colleagues to submit their proposals for papers according to the guidelines.   Proposals for Papers and Guidelines for Participants:  In order to submit proposals for papers, first identify the symposium or symposia in which you would like to participate. Since symposia are organized along 16 thematic areas, we hope that you can easily find a symposium fitting your research interests. If you are interested in a particular topic, keyword or convener, you can use the search function of our website (http://ica2012.univie.ac.at) to find the most appropriate venue for presenting your paper. Once you have identified the symposium or symposia in which you would like to participate, please send your proposals for papers using the online form available at:  ica2012.univie.ac.at/call-for-papers/proposal-submission ica2012.univie.ac.at  The paper submission form requires you to identify the symposium to which you are applying. Then provide the following information about your proposal: Title, abstract (between 1000 and 2000 characters) and keywords Information about the author, such as name, contact and institutional affiliation, are required.  We would like to call your attention to the expanded conditions for multiple participation: Conveners of a symposium may also present one paper, other participants may present two papers.  After the call for papers has been closed, conveners will access all proposals submitted to their symposia and they will decide about paper acceptance. The Organizing Committee will notify presenters of this decision by December 2011. In order to be part of the final program, all symposium conveners and paper presenters need to register and pay the Congress fee by 31 March 2012.  We have posted the Guidelines for Participants at ica2012.univie.ac.at/guidelines-for-participants/  DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS FOR PAPERS: 31 AUGUST 2011 CONTACT  For inquiries regarding the scientific program, please contact the Organizing Committee: oc-54ica@univie.ac.at  For inquiries regarding registration and hotel booking, please contact the event management at the University of Vienna: congress@univie.ac.at  For inquiries regarding the Congress in general and administrative matters, please contact: office-54ica@univie.ac.at  For the Spanish version of this call for papers please look at: ica2012.univie.ac.at/es  For the Portuguese version please look at: https://ica2012.univie.ac.at/pt/inicio      