Int. Conference: "Iberian Modalities"
           Of late the term Iberian Studies has been gaining academic currency, but its semantic scope still fluctuates. For some it is a convenient way of combining the official cultures of two states, Portugal and Spain, yet for others the term opens up disciplinary space, altering established routines. Shattering the state’s epistemological frame complexifies the field through the emergence of lines of inquiry and bodies of knowledge hitherto written off as irrelevant.  This more complex understanding of the term has been gaining ground despite disciplinary inertia, as always happens with new epistemic paradigms according to Thomas Kuhn.  This conference brings together scholars whose work shows awareness of the cultural and linguistic complexity of the field to discuss the institutional challenges to the practice of Iberian Studies and to share work conceived from that relational point of view.   Program:  Friday, 02/11  9:00-9:15  Breakfast  9:15-9:20  Opening Remarks by Joan Ramon Resina, Director of the Catalan Observatory at Stanford University  9:20-11:00  INSTITUTIONALIZING IBERIAN STUDIES Mario Santana, The University of Chicago: The Future of Iberian Studies: Some Paradigmatic and Curricular Challenges  Dominic Keown, University of Cambridge: Dine with the Opposition? No, gracias!' Hispanism versus Iberian Studies in the UK 	and Ireland  L. Elena Delgado, University of Illinois, Urbana/Champaign:  If we build it, will they come? Iberian Studies as a field of dreams   11:00-11:15	Coffee Break  11:15-1:00 IBERIAN LITERARY FIELDS Robert Davidson, University of Toronto: Iberian Publishing  Antoni Martí Monterde, Universitat de Barcelona: Interliterarietat i camp literari. La literatura catalana i les literatures a Catalunya  José María Rodríguez-García, Duke University: Iberian, Atlantic, and Trans-Atlantic Modalities: Situating Galicia  1:00-2:00   Lunch  2:00-4:15   IBERIAN DIALOGS David Nirenberg, University of Chicago 	Convivencia: The Modern Exemplarity of Medieval Spain  Alfredo J. Sosa Velasco, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill: Representations of Jews and Jewishness in Contemporary Catalan Literature  Maite Zubiaurre, UCLA:	Visual Erotica in Early Twentieth Century Iberia  Patrizio Rigobon, Università Ca’Foscari (Venice): Francisco María Tubino Between Federalism and Iberism?   Saturday, 02/12  9:30-9:45	Breakfast  9:45-11:30	SPAIN OR IBERIA?  A MATTER OF CONTEXT William Viestenz, Stanford University: Spain's Time of the Sacred and the Future of Metaphysics in a Post-Secular 	Modernity   Ulrich Winter, Philipps-Universität Marburg: Asymmetric Wars, Incongruent Times: Iberian Paradigms for a Cultural History of 	the 20th Century  Hans Ulrich Gumbrecht, Stanford University: What Contexts Can Help Us to Appreciate 'Tiempo de	Silencio'  11:30-11:45	Coffee Break  11:45-1:15   	FROM SEA TO IBERIAN SEA  Vincent Barletta, Stanford University: 	Language, Death, and the Senses: Ramon Llull and the Portuguese Empire  Humberto Brito, Universidade Nova de Lisboa: The Iberian Problem Joan Ramon Resina, Stanford University: 	In the Eye of the Beholder. Josep Pla in Portugal  1:15-1:30   		Closing Remarks by Vincent Barletta 	Iberian and Latin American Department, Stanford University  1:30			Lunch      