"Cognitive Interaction Technology": Research Grants for PhD Students and Postdoc Researchers (Linguistics)
           The Graduate School Cognitive Interaction Technology at Bielefeld University, Germany offers  Research Grants for PhD Students and Postdoc Researchers  The Center of Excellence Cognitive Interaction Technology (CITEC) at Bielefeld University has been established in the framework of the Excellence Initiative as a research center for intelligent systems and cognitive interaction between humans and technical systems. CITEC's focus is directed towards motion intelligence, attentive systems, situated communication, and memory and learning. Research and development are directed towards understanding the processes and functional constituents of cognitive interaction, and establishing cognitive interfaces that facilitate the use of complex technical systems.  The Graduate School Cognitive Interaction Technology invites applications from outstanding young scientists, in the fields of robotics, computer science, biology, physics, sports sciences, linguistics or psychology, that are willing to contribute to the cross-disciplinary research agenda of CITEC. The international profile of CITEC fosters the exchange of researchers and students with related scientific institutions. For PhD students, a structured program including taught courses and time for individual research is offered. The integration and active participation in interdisciplinary research projects, which includes access to first class lab facilities, is facilitated by CITEC. For more information, please see: www.cit-ec.de  Successful candidates must hold an excellent academic degree (MSc/Diploma/PhD) in a related discipline, have a strong interest in research, and be proficient in both written and spoken English. Research grants will be given for the duration of three years for PhD students, and one to three years for Postdocs.  All applications should include: a cover letter indicating the motivation and research interests of the candidate, a CV including a list of publications, and relevant certificates of academic qualification. PhD applicants are asked to provide the outline of a PhD project (2-3 pages) and a short abstract. Postdoc researchers are asked to provide the outline of a research project (4-5 pages) relevant to CITEC's research objectives and a short abstract. It is obligatory for Postdoc applicants, and strongly recommended for PhD applicants, to provide two letters of recommendation. In the absence of letters of recommendation, PhD candidates should provide the names and contact details of two referees. All documentation should be submitted in electronic form.  We strongly encourage candidates to contact our researchers, in advance of application, in order to develop project ideas. For a list of CITEC researchers please visit: www.cit-ec.de  Bielefeld University is an equal opportunity employer. Women are especially encouraged to apply and in the case of comparable competences and qualification, will be given preference. Bielefeld University explicitly encourages disabled people to apply.  Please direct any queries relating to your application to Claudia Muhl, Graduate School Manager, phone: +49-(0)521-106-6566, E-Mail: cmuhl@cit-ec.uni-bielefeld.de.  Applications will be considered until all positions have been filled. For guaranteed consideration, please submit your documents no later than March 22, 2009. Please address your application to:  CITEC Graduate School - Bielefeld University Head of Graduate School Prof. Thomas Schack Bielefeld  E-Mail: gradschool@cit-ec.uni-bielefeld.de www.uni-bielefeld.de 