CfP - Workshop: Sentence-Initial Bare Nouns in Romance Languages
           The possibilities and constraints of starting a sentence with a bare noun vary strongly in the different Romance languages and varieties. In the last years, increasing research on nominal determination (general as well as on Romance) has offered new empirical data (elicited or from corpora), new methodological insights and new theoretical explanations for the particular, language-specific bare noun distribution. The range of types of sentence-initial bare nouns in Romance languages is related to a series of heterogeneous syntactic, semantic and pragmatic factors as well as to other phenomena, and the aim of the workshop is to discuss, on the one hand, particular (and partly striking) cases in the different languages as well as, on the other hand, overall explanations allowing to classify the individual cases.  The phenomena discussed in this workshop could include among others:  -	determiner omission in topicalizations: (1)	(Span.)		Ø Gente hay que no sabe lo que dice. (2)	(Braz. Port.)	Ø Nariz já saiu muito sangue.  -	determiner omission with contrastive focus: (3)	(Ital.)		Ø Pollo io voglio, non pesce.  -	“heavy” bare subjects: (4)	(Ital.)		Ø Cani con difetti con geniti sono molto comuni. (5)	(Eur.Port.)	Ø Amigos de Coimbra partiram ontem.  -	singular bare subjects (generic as well as specific): (6)	(Braz. Port)	Ø Bicicleta não polui. (7)	(Braz. Port)	Ø Bicicleta ia se arrebentar. (8)	(Old Span.)	&amp, Ø carçel esta muy lana (9)	(Old Span.)	e Ø respuesta de Dios fue tal, que ...	  The workshop aims at bringing together researchers working on this kind of phenomena in order to bundle approaches, methods and new data into one all-embracing and open discussion without framework restriction.  Contributions are welcome on any aspect of sentence-initial bare nouns including synchronic as well as diachronic and/or contrastive approaches. Since some of the data are challenged by native speakers and researchers, contributions on methodological (e.g. psycholinguistic, prosodic, corpus-specific) questions for the synchronic and diachronic investigation of marginal phenomena would be appreciated as well.  Please submit your abstracts by December 31st. Acceptance will be communicated by January 31st. The workshop will be held at the University of Tübingen on May 26th &amp, 27th, 2011 and is hosted by the Research Project C3 “The variation and dynamics of nominal determination” within the Collaborative Research Center 833 “Emergence of Meaning” (http://www.sfb833.uni-tuebingen.de).  Address: Prof. Dr. Johannes Kabatek – Albert Wall University of Tübingen Romanisches Seminar Wilhelmstr. 50 D-72074 Tübingen kabatek@uni-tuebingen.de  Contact: albert.wall@uni-tuebingen.de     