Invitation to submit draft proposals for a Research Group to the Center for Interdisciplinary Research (ZiF) of Bielefeld University
           Center for Interdisciplinary Research (ZiF) Call for Project Proposals  Invitation to submit draft proposals for a Research Group to the Center for Interdisciplinary Research (ZiF) of Bielefeld University  The Center for Interdisciplinary Research of Bielefeld University intends to establish a new research group in the academic year 2010/2011. Research Groups are the ZiF's primary format to support long-term interdisciplinary collaboration. For several months, up to one year, the participants reside at the ZiF and work together on a broader research theme. All ZiF projects stand out for interdisciplinarity, internationality and scientific excellence ensured by external peer reviewing.  Applications may be submitted by any scientist or scholar from Germany or abroad. In the initial phase, a draft proposal for a research project (up to 5 pages) is required. In a second phase, invitations to submit applications will be issued. Support by the ZiF comprises financial assistance as well as providing its infrastructure, i.e. accommodation, workspaces, conference facilities. Draft proposals should be received by the Managing Director of the ZiF by January 31, 2009 at the latest.  The ZiF is an internationally operating Institute for Advanced Study which has been housing and supporting interdisciplinary research projects from the natural sciences, humanities, and social sciences since 1968. The proximity of the university campus creates excellent working conditions and facilitates contacts among scientists and scholars beyond their collaboration at the ZiF.  For details regarding application procedures and organization see www.uni-bielefeld.de/ZIF  For further information, please contact: Center for Interdisciplinary Research (ZiF) Dr. Britta Padberg Wellenberg 1 33615 Bielefeld  Telefon: +49 521-106-2795  E-Mail: britta.padberg@uni-bielefeld.de www.uni-bielefeld.de/ZIF 