European Institutes for Advanced Study (EURIAS) Fellowship Programme 2013-2014
           The European Institutes for Advanced Study (EURIAS) Fellowship Programme is an international researcher mobility programme offering 10-month residencies in one of the 14 participating Institutes: Berlin, Bologna, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Cambridge, Helsinki, Jerusalem, Lyons, Nantes, Paris, Uppsala, Vienna, Wassenaar. The Institutes for Advanced Study support the focused, self-directed work of outstanding researchers. The fellows benefit from the finest intellectual and research conditions and from the stimulating environment of a multi-disciplinary and international community of first-rate scholars.  EURIAS Fellowships are mainly offered in the fields of the humanities and social sciences but may also be granted to scholars in life and exact sciences, provided that their proposed research project does not require laboratory facilities and that it interfaces with humanities and social sciences. The diversity of the 14 participating IAS offers a wide range of possible research contexts in Europe for worldwide scholars. Applicants may select up to three IAS outside their country of nationality or residence as possible host institutions.  The Programme welcomes applications worldwide from promising young scholars as well as from leading senior researchers. The EURIAS selection process has proven to be highly competitive. To match the Programme standards, applicants have to submit a solid and innovative research proposal, to demonstrate the ability to forge beyond disciplinary specialisation, to show an international commitment as well as quality publications in high-impact venues.  For the 2013-2014 academic year, EURIAS offers 32 fellowships (16 junior and 16 senior positions).  All IAS have agreed on common standards, including the provision of a living allowance (in the range of € 26,000 for a junior fellow and € 38,000 for a senior fellow), accommodation (or a mobility allowance), a research budget, plus coverage of travel expenses.  APPLICATION – Applications are submitted online via www.eurias-fp.eu, where, you will find detailed information regarding the content of the application, eligibility criteria, selection procedure. – The deadline for applications is June 7th, 2012. Late applications will not be considered.  SELECTION PROCEDURE – Scientific assessment by two international referees – Pre-selection by the EURIAS international Scientific Committee – Final selection by the IAS Academic Boards – Publication of results : December 2012  For further information on the Programme, please consult our website: www.eurias-fp.eu 