Junior Researcher (contracted PhD student) in Language Development and Interaction
           Junior Researcher (contracted PhD student) in Language Development and Interaction   Application End :  Friday October 15 2010 The University of Luxemburg invites applications for the following vacancy in its Faculty of Language and Literature, Humanities, Arts and Education  Junior researcher (PhD student) in Language Development and Interaction M/F  Ref. F3-060017 2-year -fixed term contract, renewable, 40 hours/week Student AND employee status Activities  Prepare a doctoral thesis in Educational Sciences Assist the professor in teaching activities, one to three hours per week Take up research within one of the following research foci, currently developed within the research group: a)   language development  b)   multilingual/multimodal interaction and learning involving relevant analytical tools and methodologies c)   collection, coding and analysis of empirical data   Specifically, this work would  fit with activities dealing with language development and the analysis of acquisitional processes in diversity contexts (e.g., bilingualism) contribute to the empirical analysis of learning involving language(s) and the symbolic nature of human development be grounded in data-driven empirical research, gathered in natural and/or semi-experimental diversified (e.g., early, adult) working/learning contexts Profile  MA degree (or equivalent) and other relevant experiences in one of the following fields, their intersections or domains of specialisation: Language sciences or speech therapy Learning sciences  Intercultural studies Interactional studies Multimodal knowledge management or corpus-based research Activity / usage related research and process-oriented methodologies. The candidate has to integrate into a multilingual research team. She/he must therefore have excellent command of at least two of the following languages: English, French, German (written and spoken).  For further information please contact:  Assoc.-Prof. Dr. Gudrun Ziegler  Phone: (+352) 46 66 44 9363 Mail: gudrun.ziegler  Interested candidates should submit the following documents  by 15th October 2010:  Motivation letter, A detailed Curriculum vitae, Overview/record of potentially related projects, activities and publications (including non-academic activities dealing with development etc.) A short (3-5 page) thesis proposal,  A copy of diplomas, The names and contact details of two academic referees (including MA dissertation/thesis supervisor where applicable).  Send to:   University of Luxembourg  Campus Walferdange  Marianne Graffé LCMI secretary B.P. 2 L-7201 Walferdange  The University of Luxembourg is an equal opportunity employer.      