CfP Second Language Research Forum 2012 “Building Bridges Between Disciplines: SLA in Many Contexts”
           The University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  The organizers of the 2012 Second Language Research Forum (SLRF) invite proposals for papers, posters, and thematic colloquia for the conference.  To embody the conference theme, “Building Bridges Between Disciplines: SLA in Many Contexts,” we are soliciting proposals from various disciplines, including those that have traditionally been associated with SLA research, as well as those that are new to SLA research or that have been underrepresented at previous SLA conferences.  We welcome proposals from all areas of second language research, including (but not limited to) the following:    - Formal Approaches to SLA   - Functional Approaches to SLA   - Cognitive Approaches to SLA   - Technology and SLA   - Classroom Research   - L2 Assessment   - Psycholinguistic Approaches to SLA   - Neurocognitive Approaches to SLA   - Bilingualism   - Corpus Approaches to SLA   - Socio-Cultural Approaches to SLA / Pragmatics   - Context of Learning / Study Abroad   - Heritage Language Learning / Language Maintenance  Comprehensive research syntheses, preferably in the form of a meta-analysis, are also welcomed.   Guidelines for Paper and Poster Submissions  Proposals for paper and poster presentations should consist of a title, an abstract, and a short summary. Titles should be no longer than 15 words. Abstracts are limited to 350 words in length, and summaries are limited to 50 words. Individual paper sessions will be 30 minutes: 20 minutes for the presentation and 10 minutes for questions and answers. Posters should measure no more than 3ft by 4ft (90cm x 120cm). Poster presenters should plan to present and discuss their work for at least one hour during their assigned poster session.    Guidelines for Refereed Colloquium Submissions  In addition to four invited colloquia, we are also soliciting proposals for two refereed colloquia. These colloquia will be collections of paper presentations that focus on a specific topic of interest, and which are organized by one or more individuals. Colloquia will be scheduled for 2½-hour blocks (roughly 4-6 papers). Proposals for refereed colloquia should consist of a 200-word (maximum) description of the colloquium topic, along with 150-word descriptions of each paper to be included. Each title should be no longer than 15 words. Colloquium acceptances will be announced April 15. This will allow researchers to submit a proposal for an individual paper or poster (by April 30) if their paper is not accepted as part of a colloquium.   Submission Policy  An author may submit a maximum of one proposal as first author, but may also be a colloquium organizer, discussant, or co-author/co-presenter of a maximum of two additional papers or posters.    Submission Instructions  Proposals will be accepted online only. To make a submission, please visit the conference web site at www.cmu.edu/slrf2012. Click on “Submissions”, and you will be taken to our submission web site. Proposals will be selected based on the results of double-blind peer review. All submissions must be completely anonymous.   Colloquium Proposal Submission Deadline: March 15, 2012 Colloquium Notification of Acceptance: April 15, 2012 Paper and Poster Abstract Submission Deadline: April 30, 2012 Paper and Poster Notification of Acceptance: July 15, 2012   Questions Please direct any questions to the SLRF 2012 organizing committee at slrf-2012@andrew.cmu.edu. We also invite you to view our website (http://www.cmu.edu/slrf2012) and to visit us on Facebook (http://www.facebook.com/slrf2012) and Twitter (http://www.twitter.com/slrf2012).      