 CfP: Society for Romanian Studies International Conference (2012, Sibiu)
           Call for Papers for the Conference of the Society for Romanian Studies (SRS)   Lucian Blaga University, Sibiu, 2-4 July 2012  Europeanization and Globalization: Romanians in Their Region and the World  More than two decades after the fall of communism and several years after Romania’s accession to the European Union, Romanians, whether at home, in a growing diaspora around the world, or by virtue of international economic and cultural networks, are continuing to find themselves integrated into increasingly interconnected European and global institutions and practices.  This gradual process of integration into international networks and interaction with foreign powers has been underway for centuries. States that occupied the territory of contemporary Romania and Moldova came under the influence of more powerful neighbors, and stood at the crossroads of both warlike and peaceful migrations. At one point most Romanian boyars spoke Greek, and in the 19th century Romanian students often studied abroad as they are again doing today. In the 1920s and 30s, ethnic and religious diversity contributed both to Europeanization and to domestic and international tensions. Then, the Soviet model played a major role in the imposition of communism.  The proposed focus of the 2012 SRS conference encourages historical, cultural and contemporary inquiries into the place of Romanians and Moldovans in European and global structures, while pondering the implications of these trends for the future.  We welcome proposals for papers, panels and round-tables coming from young and established scholars working in history, sociology, anthropology, political science, philosophy, law, linguistics, economics, business, religious studies, theater, literature, cinema studies, music, and education. Possible topics might include, but are not limited to:     - Romania and the European Union    - “Europe’s,” Russia’s, and Romania’s roles in the Republic of Moldova    - The social, political, and ideological implications of globalization in    Romania and Moldova    - Migration and diaspora within Europe, North America, etc. Consequences of EU accession    - Challenges to European and global integration    - Romanian writers abroad    - Romanian literature in translation    - The global reception of Romanian cinema, literature and art    - The Romanian/Jewish avant-garde in Zurich, Paris, Berlin    - Multinational enterprises in modern Romania and Moldova    - Minority cultures in Romania and Moldova (Roma, German, Hungarian, Jewish, Russian, Ukrainian, Gagauz et al.) The construction of a European memory     - Romanian and Moldovan culture in the digital age    - The Romanian language mass media system in the panoply of world media models    - Journalism and political parallelism    - New and old forms of censorship and self-censorship    - Romanians’ and Moldovans’ historical encounters with “others”    - The image of the Roma/Jew/Hungarian/German among Romanians  Paper proposals should include the title of the presentation, a brief abstract of up to 500 words, a short c.v., and the contact information of the presenter. They should be sent in a single attached Word document by December 1, 2011, to Matthew Ciscel at CiscelM@ccsu.edu. Proposals for 2-hour panels including 3-4 papers, one chair, and 1-2 discussants should provide a description of the panel topic, abstracts of papers, short c.v.’s and contact information for all participants. Panel participants should be drawn from at least two different universities. 2-hour round-tables of 3-5 participants will also be considered. Participants will be notified of the acceptance of their proposal by January 30, 2012.  SRS is an international inter-disciplinary academic organization based in North America. For information about SRS visit www.society4romanianstudies.org.  Contact: Irina Livezeanu Department of History 3520 Posvar Hall University of Pittsburgh t. 412-648-7451 f.412-648-9074      