Full PhD Studentship / Graduate Teaching Assistantship in French Studies
           The School of Modern Languages, Newcastle University, is offering a full PhD studentship (Graduate Teaching Assistantship) starting in October 2011, to enable a student to carry out doctoral research on a topic in French Studies - www.ncl.ac.uk/sml/research/subjects/french/FrenchIntoduction.htm - or in another area of the School of Modern Languages.  As a Graduate Teaching Assistant, the successful candidate will teach up to 6 hours per week and in return will receive:  *   An annual stipend of £ 13,000  *   A waiver for UK/EU fees throughout the 3-year period.  *   Appropriate training for doctoral research and teaching.  The studentship will commence on 01/10/2011 or as soon thereafter as possible, for a period of 3 years. Informal enquiries can be made to the Director of Postgraduate Studies, Dr Sarah Leahy: s.m.leahy@ncl.ac.uk, 0191 222 7492.  Research expertise in French Studies  *  Algerian cinema, French cinema, especially stardom, genre, film history, cinematic space (Prof G Austin, Dr S Leahy).  * Contemporary women’s writing, Trauma studies, Textual genetics, Modern literature, Francophone studies (Dr K Robson, Dr M El-Maizi, Prof G Austin).  * French linguistics, especially semantics and pragmatics (Dr R Waltereit).  * Historical studies: nineteenth century political ideas, Epistolary studies, gender studies and history of feminist and socialist political movements (Prof M Cross).  * Politics, society, media and popular culture (Dr H Dauncey).  About the School The School of Modern Languages at Newcastle works as an integrated school in terms of both research and teaching, allowing us to develop true interdisciplinarity within and across our language sections, and with other schools in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. There is a vibrant research culture in the School, which also has strong links to a number of Research Groups and Centres in the HASS Faculty, including: Centre for Research in Linguistics and Language Sciences (CRiLLS), Gender Research Group, Postcolonial Research Group, Research Group in Film and Media, Translating and Interpreting Research Forum. We run a portfolio of taught Masters Programmes, in addition to Research Masters and Doctoral programmes. We have a lively international postgraduate community within the School and at Faculty level.  Requirements and Applications The successful candidate will have a good first degree and an MA or equivalent in a relevant area, native or near-native proficiency in the relevant language, as well as in English.  Applications Your application should include: a letter of application, a research proposal and CV with the names and addresses of two referees. Application deadline: 11 March 2011.  Please send your application to: Dr Sarah Leahy, Director of Postgraduate Studies, School of Modern Languages, Newcastle University, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE1 7RU, Tel: +44 191 222 5867, Fax: +44 191 222 3496. Email: s.m.leahy@ncl.ac.uk       