CfP: Transformations of History
           The interdisciplinary early career network ”Transformations of History“   will host a conference “Geschichtstransformationen – Transformations of History at the University of Mainz, Germany from 28 February to 2 March 2013.  We invite scholars of history, literary and cultural studies to join our discussion of the relationship between literary studies and history. The subject “transformations of history” connects the two disciplines and their respective approaches: We understand transformations  as processes of re-writing and re-interpreting  historical events. Focusing on moments of  political, cultural or social changes, this conference seeks to broach the question how these moments are connected to or bring about specific representation of the past. Combining the analytical angles of the different disciplines, key questions are how and why these transformations of content, form or aesthetics occur. An example of such a transformation would be the creation of a ‘useable past’ in the process of nation building or the re-evaluation of previous events in light of a political or social change through reduction, simplifications, extension or re-interpretation of their meaning. The papers at the conference will discuss under which conditions such a transformation can take place, who or what are their instigators, which media do they use and how they generate new meanings, for example by extending, replacing or suppressing existing ones. In order to further the reflection on these questions, the papers can discuss theoretical and methodological questions as well as their application in case studies.  Confirmed  keynote speakers  are Prof. Dr. Andrea Jäger (Halle), Dr. Anu Korhonen (Helsinki), Prof. Dr. Matías Martínez (Wuppertal) and Prof. Dr. Cornelia Sieber (Mainz).  We are looking forward to receive  proposals (max. 1.000 characters) for presentations of about 25 minutes. Proposals have to be submitted until  October 31, 2012 . The papers can be held in both, English or German, which are also the conference languages. The organizers have applied for additional funds for housing and travel costs, but please understand that, as of now, reimbursements cannot be guaranteed. A volume with selected papers from the conference is planned for publication later that year.    Please send your proposals to Cathleen Sarti: csarti@uni-mainz.de        