French and Francophone Studies Research Fellow
           French and Francophone Studies Research Fellow University of Westminster -School of Social Sciences, Humanities and Languages  £18,590 p.a. (incl. L.W.A.) 17.5 hours per week Fixed Term until July 2014 Regent site, Central London  French and Francophone Studies are situated in the Department of Modern and Applied Languages in the School of Social Sciences, Humanities and Languages. The School is home to several major, leading teaching and research programmes. It has a large and vibrant undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral student and growing post-doctoral community, and a team of dedicated staff engaged in nationally and internationally recognised teaching and research. French and Francophone Studies are key to the School's and to the Department's research activities, and the Research Fellow will make an essential contribution to consolidating, sustaining and developing the Department's overall research profile as well as to French and Francophone Studies research. Research in the Department is underpinned principally by two well-established research areas focusing on Francophone Africa (especially visual culture) and war and culture studies (Group for War and Culture Studies, Journal of War and Culture Studies). A recent development is work on historical and contemporary aspects of the French and Francophone presence in London which has synergies with other research interests across the Department, School and University.  The post-holder will be expected to manage their own teaching, research and administrative activities within the framework set by the Department, School and University policy with mentoring support from academic staff. The post-holder will possess the specialist knowledge necessary to be able to deliver high quality teaching and support to established teaching programmes, and to engage in high quality individual and/or collaborative research. The post-holder will be expected to generate a series of research outputs, including high quality publications, and to collaborate with colleagues on new and existing grants and proposals as part of the Department's research development. It is a key expectation that the post-holder will have published, and will continue to publish, in an appropriate area of French and Francophone Studies, and to contribute to the Department's REF and research profile.  The successful applicant will complement and enhance the profile of the established researchers in French and Francophone Studies. S/he will hold an appropriate doctoral qualification, and the post is ideally suited to the development of an early career researcher. In addition, s/he will possess proven experience of research and of teaching design, and will have subject expertise that is up-to-date. A teaching qualification is desirable, but not essential. S/he will be highly motivated, able to communicate knowledge and ideas clearly and be familiar with a range of research models and methods. S/he will also be committed to contributing towards broader management issues concerning research and research strategy.  Job reference number: 50034626 Closing date:  05 December 2012 Interviews are likely to be held on: 18 December 2012   Administrative contact (for queries only): Recruitment@westminster.ac.uk  Please note: We are unable to accept any applications by email. All applications must be made online. CVs in isolation or incomplete application forms will also not be accepted.  Embracing Diversity and Promoting Equality      Hartmut Duppel     