International PhD Programme "Literary and Cultural Studies"
           Giessen University's International PhD Programme “Literary and Cultural Studies” (IPP) offers a three-year, structured PhD-programme in the study of literature and culture. With its excellent research environment, a doctoral programme which is tailored to the needs of PhD students and the intensive personal support it provides, the IPP offers doctoral researchers optimum conditions for their PhD-projects and custom-made preparation for the time thereafter, both with regard to academic and non-academic careers.  The IPP invites applications for one of   up to 15 PhD memberships.  The IPP offers a clearly structured and research-oriented three-year doctoral programme of high academic standard. The programme period for new members begins October 1, 2013. The IPP’s curriculum is tailored to suit the needs of postgraduate students and facilitates the completion of the doctoral degree within three years, while at the same time ensuring the academic quality of the PhD. Participating departments include English and American Studies, German Studies, Romance Studies, Slavic Studies, Comparative Literary Studies and Theatre Studies. The languages of instruction are English and German.  The IPP constitutes an international meeting point for postgraduate students and scholars of diverse academic backgrounds and has thus established a lively context for stimulating academic debates. It is committed to cutting edge research in four key areas in the field of Literary and Cultural Studies: Literary and Cultural Theory | Genre Theory | Literary and Cultural Historiography | Comparative and Interdisciplinary Issues.  As a member of the IPP, you are entitled to: •	participate in the IPP’s curriculum and the GGK/GCSC study programme which consists of a wide range of courses tailored to suit your needs, including bi-weekly graduate colloquia, workshops, Master Classes with top ranking international scholars as well as courses offered by the GGK/GCSC Career Service and the GCSC Teaching Centre, •	apply for travel grants for research and conference trips, •	receive support and guidance in all matters relating to the PhD throughout your membership, •	benefit from excellent opportunities to gain conference, publishing and teaching experience, •	pursue independent research in the GGK junior research and working groups, •	rely on expert scholarship advice, helping you to secure funding for your postgraduate studies.  Eligibility: Applicants need to hold a university degree in literary or cultural studies with a G.P.A. well above average (international degrees must be equivalent to German 'Diplom', 'Magister', 'Master' or 'Erstes Staatsexamen' degrees). Any postgraduate student in the faculty of Language, Literature and Culture may apply for membership in the IPP as long as their research project is relevant to the IPP profile. An international research perspective i.e. international study experience is an advantage.  Application procedure and deadline: The main selection criteria are the candidates’ academic qualifications, the academic quality of the research proposal and the suitability of the project for the IPP’s research programme.  The application deadline is May 1, 2013 (date of receipt). All applications have to be submitted via mail. Applications should be addressed to the academic director of the IPP: Prof. Dr. Ansgar Nünning International PhD Programme (IPP) &quot,Literary and Cultural Studies&quot, Giessen Graduate School for the Humanities (GGK) Justus Liebig University Giessen Alter Steinbacher Weg 38 35394 Giessen Germany Please find all information about the application process on our website at ipp.uni-giessen.de. For further information, please contact the IPP coordinator, Dr. Christine Schwanecke, at ipp@ggk.uni-giessen.de.      