Junior and Senior Research Fellowships
           International Graduate Centre for the Study of Culture (GCSC)at Justus Liebig University Giessen (JLU) Junior and Senior Research Fellowships Application InformationTo facilitate research in the study of culture, the “International Graduate Centre for the Study of Culture” (GCSC),funded by the German government's Excellence Initiative, grants up to two Senior Research Fellowships and upto two Junior Research Fellowships per year. For qualified scholars at any stage of their academic career aftertheir PhD, the GCSC offers the opportunity to do research free of university obligations, to discuss their work withdoctoral students and colleagues, and to establish long-term research co-operations. Applicants from allnationalities and institutional affiliations who have a proven record of excellent research in the study of culture areeligible.Research projects should reflect the international research context, open up innovative perspectives on the studyof culture, and follow an interdisciplinary research design. Fellows are asked to contribute to the development ofthe GCSC’s research profile and to the mentoring programme for PhD students by presenting their currentresearch at least once in a public lecture, and by holding a master class (Senior Research Fellows) or a workshop(Junior Research Fellows) related to their current research.Candidates must have an innovative research project that contributes to the GCSC research profile and isthematically linked to at least one of the following research areas: Memory Cultures, Culture and Narration,Culture and Performativity, Visual Culture, Culture, Language and the New Media, Culture and Identities, Politicaland Transnational Culture(s), Cultures of Knowledge, Research and Education (Please see our website fordetails: www.uni-giessen.de/cms/fbz/zentren/ggk/gcsc/research). Applications may be submitted either inGerman or English. They will be evaluated according to the criteria of excellence in research, familiarity withongoing international research, a well-defined research question and an interdisciplinary methodologicalframework.Duration and fundingSenior Research Fellowships will be granted for one to four months during an academic semester (April-July 08or October 08-February 09). They entail a monthly stipend of € 2.350,- as well as one-time travel costs to andfrom Giessen. The GCSC will provide office space including a PC with internet access, access to the JLU-libraryand the support of a student assistant (20h/month), as well as free accommodation in Giessen. The GCSC doesnot contribute to retirement or health benefits.Junior Research Fellowships will be granted to post-doctoral scholars for two to four months during anacademic semester (April-July 08 or October 08-February 09). Fellowships entail a monthly stipend of € 1.500,-as well as one-time travel costs to and from Giessen. The GCSC will provide office space including a PC withinternet access, access to the JLU-library and the support of a student assistant (20h/month), as well as freeaccommodation in Giessen. The GCSC does not contribute to retirement or health benefits. Application Deadline and Decision NotificationApplication deadline: 20 January 2008Decision notification: 15 February 2008Please use our application form which is available for download at:www.uni-giessen.de/gcsc 