Lecturer in Intercultural Studies with Spanish
           Lecturer in Intercultural Studies with Spanish (5 Year contract) Faculty of Humanities &amp, Social Sciences School of Applied language and Intercultural Studies (SALIS)  As an integral part of its development of Intercultural Studies, the School of Applied Language and Intercultural Studies (SALIS) seeks to appoint a suitably qualified person to undertake lecturing, research and a leadership role in Intercultural Studies within the School. As Intercultural Studies in SALIS is closely linked to the study of language and cultures, proficiency in a language other than English is considered essential for this position, in this case Spanish, which is a growth area in the school.  Proficiency and experience in teaching Spanish language at university level is a prerequisite for this position, as the successful candidate will also be required to contribute to the development of Spanish language teaching within SALIS.  The School welcomes applications from candidates who combine expertise in Intercultural Studies with Spanish language teaching. Expertise in Ethnographic Research Methodology is also an advantage.  Applicants for this post are expected to have a PhD in Intercultural Studies, appropriate teaching experience and an excellent record of post-doctoral activities in related research, publications, administration and international professional organisations. Candidates should have demonstrable experience of teaching and research in Intercultural Studies at university level, as well as at least 3 years teaching of Spanish language at university level. The successful candidate will be expected to provide leadership in developing the teaching and research agenda for Intercultural Studies within the School, as well as to contribute to the teaching of Spanish language within SALIS.  Intercultural Studies is taught at both postgraduate and undergraduate level in DCU: on the B.A. in Applied Language and Intercultural Studies (ALIS) and the B.A in Contemporary Culture and Society (BACCS), Intercultural Studies is one of the pathways in which students can specialise, and 'Intercultural Communicative Competence' modules are taught on a variety of undergraduate programmes throughout the university. The M.A. in Intercultural Studies (MAIS) is the only one of its kind in Ireland - combining the study of sociological and psychological approaches to interculturalism, with modules on language and culture, arts, film and literature, and practical business and workplace case studies. Appreciation of the importance of interdisciplinarity, multilingualism and multiculturalism to understanding intercultural issues is a cornerstone value underpinning teaching and research in this area in SALIS. The successful candidate will be expected to continue to foster innovation and the existing interdisciplinary and applied focus of research and teaching in this area.  Spanish is taught on all undergraduate programmes in SALIS and is a highly popular language among students. An integral part of SALIS undergraduate degree programmes is that students spend Year 3 studying abroad to develop their linguistic skills and intercultural competence. The successful candidate will be expected to assist in coordinating and monitoring students' Year Abroad experience at Spanish speaking partner institutions, as well as providing support for the development of new technologies and blended approaches in Spanish language teaching in SALIS.  The successful candidate will be expected to make an important contribution to the research and teaching profile of the School, as well as to undertake significant administrative responsibilities. In accordance with the multilingual nature of the School and its interdisciplinary ethos, the successful candidate will also be expected to collaborate with colleagues in other areas on interdisciplinary projects of mutual interest.  Starting date: 1st September 2011  Informal Enquiries to: Dr Aileen Pearson-Evans, Head of School of Applied Language &amp, Intercultural Studies (SALIS) E-mail: aileen.pearson-evans@dcu.ie Tel: +353 (0)1 700 5193  Further information: More information on the School, including specific areas of research expertise and details of taught programmes, may be found at: www.dcu.ie/salis  Salary Scale: Lecturer above bar: €50,159 - €81,403 Lecturer below bar: €41,502 - €51,724 (Subject to qualifications and experience)  These salary scales may be affected by the provisions of the 2011 Budget  Closing Date: Monday 4th July 2011  This post is considered essential to the University.  Application forms are available from: www.dcu.ie/vacancies/APPLICATION_FORM_8pg.doc and from the Human Resources Department, Dublin City University, Dublin 9. Tel: +353 (0)1 700 5149, Fax: +353 (0)1 700 5500 Email: hr.applications@dcu.ie  Dublin City University is an equal opportunities employer      Hartmut Duppel     