Professor of French Studies (Education and Research)
           Professor of French Studies (Education and Research) University of Exeter - College of Humanities  Ref: R11156 Salary in excess of £65k  The Department of Modern Languages at Exeter is one of the UK's leading and most respected centres for research and teaching in French, German, Hispanic Studies (including Catalan and Portuguese), Italian, and Russian. Modern Languages at Exeter is now expanding its staffing provision, both as a strategic move and to meet increasing student demand. This key appointment forms a crucial part in an ongoing narrative of investment in Modern Languages at Exeter.  French at Exeter is ranked in the UK's top 10 French departments for world-leading research (RAE 2008). With more than 500 students, and 12 research-active members of staff, we provide a rigorous, lively and friendly working environment and our teaching is led by our internationally excellent and world-leading research. The successful candidate will already have published world-leading research in an area of French Studies, and will have a strong track record of attracting research funding.  See humanities.exeter.ac.uk/modernlanguages/french/ for further details.  Informal enquiries can be made to Prof Andrew Thorpe, Associate Dean for Research in the College of Humanities, (tel: +44 (0) 1392 724396, email: a.j.thorpe@exeter.ac.uk), or Dr Emma Cayley, Head of Modern Languages (tel: +44 (0)1392 724387, email: e.j.cayley@exeter.ac.uk). You may also wish to consult our web site at humanities.exeter.ac.uk for further details of the College.  The closing date for completed applications is 22nd May 2012.  The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity employer which is 'Positive About Disabled People': if you have a disability, you should mention this in your application. Whilst all applicants will be judged on merit alone, we particularly welcome applications from groups currently underrepresented in the workforce.     