Lecturer in Portuguese (Education and Research)
           Lecturer in Portuguese (Education and Research) University of Exeter -College of Humanities  (Ref. P44371)  The result of the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise confirms Exeter's position as one of the UK's leading research-intensive universities. Almost 90% of our research is at internationally recognised levels and every single subject submitted included world-leading (4*) research. When adjusted for the 95% of staff submitted, Exeter ranks among the top 15 in the UK for research out of 159 higher education institutions. The Times Higher Education described Exeter as 'a rising star among research-intensive institutions'.  The post of Lecturer in Portuguese will contribute to extending the research profile of Hispanic Studies and Modern Languages at Exeter.  The successful applicant will hold a PhD in Lusophone Studies and have an independent, internationally-recognised research programme in an active field of research related or complementary to existing Exeter strengths. He/she will be able to demonstrate the following qualities and characteristics: a strong record in attracting research funding, or demonstrable potential to attract such funding, teamwork skills to work in collaboration with existing group members, an active and supportive approach to inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary research that will help to foster interactions and links both within the University and externally, the attitude and ability to engage in continuous professional development, the aptitude to develop familiarity with a variety of strategies to promote and assess learning and enthusiasm for delivering undergraduate programmes.  The Department of Modern Languages at Exeter is one of the UK's leading and most respected centres for research and teaching in French, German, Hispanic Studies (including Catalan and Portuguese), Italian, and Russian. We also offer Mandarin Chinese within the department. Our research ranges across a wide variety of disciplines including Art History, European Literature and Culture, Film, Linguistics, Medieval Studies, Sexuality and Gender, Translation, and Visual Culture, and across time from the medieval to the contemporary. As well as covering the cultures of major European nations, we have substantial expertise in Latin America and Francophone Africa. Our academic staff, supported by a team of language teachers which includes native-speaker teachers, are highly successful in winning prestigious research awards from funding bodies including the AHRC, Leverhulme and British Academy. We are a large yet very friendly department with over thirty internationally excellent research staff. Our total current research and teaching staff numbers sixty-four. We are recruiting 5 further leading researchers to join our team this year.  Our staff are affiliated to a wide range of University research centres including the Centres for Medieval Studies, Early Modern Studies, Intermedia, Interdisciplinary Research in Film Studies, and Medical History. We have around 70 research students registered in the department. Our MA in Translation is a successful and growing programme.  For up-to-date details of all our UG and PG programmes and modules, and further details of the Department of Modern Languages, please see humanities.exeter.ac.uk/modernlanguages/  Applicants may make informal enquiries about the post to Dr Emma Cayley, Head of Modern Languages (tel: +44 (0) 1392 724387, email: e.j.cayley@exeter.ac.uk). You may also wish to consult our web site (http://humanities.exeter.ac.uk) for further details of the College.  Appointments will be made within the Education and Research job family, salary range £31,948 to £35,938 Grade F, depending on skills and experience.  The closing date for completed applications is 20 December 2012.  The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity employer which is 'Positive about Disabled People'. Whilst all applicants will be judged on merit alone, we particularly welcome applications from groups currently underrepresented in the workforce.     