Lecturer - King's Brazil Institute
           Lecturer King's College London - King's Brazil Institute  The closing date for receipt of applications is 24 September 2010.   Summary: The King's Brazil Institute was created in 2008 to encourage the development of stronger Brazil-related teaching and research capabilities within King's College London, as well as paving the way for firmer links with Brazilian organizations in education, the cultural and creative sectors, business and government. The Institute now wishes to appoint a Lecturer. The field for the appointment is open, but themes of particular interest for the Institute are Brazil and global politics, creative and cultural industries, environmental policy, the political economy of energy, law, justice, and human rights, public health and social policy, and Brazilian history.  Details: The appointee is expected to undertake high-quality original research on Brazil and contribute to the development of teaching options on Brazil to help promote interest in Brazil amongst King's students. A track record in research income generation and PhD supervision will be an advantage. An ability to teach well is anticipated. It will be an advantage if the appointee brings and/or develops links with the Brazilian community within London, as well as building links with relevant institutions and agencies in Brazil.  Salary: The appointment will be made, dependent on relevant qualifications and experience, at Grade 6-7, currently £33,070 to £47,478 per annum, inclusive of £2,323 London Allowance per annum.  Benefits include an annual season ticket loan scheme and a final salary superannuation scheme.   Contact Information: For an informal discussion of the post please contact Professor Anthony Pereira, Director of the King's Brazil Institute, at anthony.pereira@kcl.ac.uk or on +44 (0)20 7848 2146. Further details and application packs are available on the College's website at www.kcl.ac.uk/jobs, or alternatively by emailing Human Resources at hsrecruit4@kcl.ac.uk. All correspondence should clearly state the job title and reference number G6/BVP/348/10-JJ. Interviews are scheduled for 25 October 2010.  Equality of opportunity is College policy     