Lecturer in Lusophone Studies
           Lecturer in Lusophone Studies King's College London  Reference: A6-7/AAS/106/13-JE  Salary: The appointment will be made, dependent on relevant qualifications, within the Grade 6/7 scale, currently £31,331 to £45,941, per annum plus £2,323 per annum London Allowance.  Indefinite Contract  The department is looking to appoint a lecturer in Portuguese language and literary and cultural studies. We are looking to strengthen a) our teaching of Portuguese language as we increase our numbers at UG level and b) build further on our expertise in Lusophone literary and cultural studies. In this respect, applications from scholars of Lusophone African literature and culture are particularly welcome. The appointee will be expected to contribute to all levels of our teaching and research programmes and must be committed to the teaching of Portuguese Language. This will include proposing new modules that will respond to teaching needs as defined by the Department, and shaping the UG and PGT programmes. The appointee will be expected to produce excellent research that will be submitted to the REF, and to seek external funding for research projects as appropriate. Guidance in this regard will be provided within the Department and the School of Arts and Humanities.  The appointee will be expected to take on administrative duties as required by the Head of Department. S/He will also have a group of Personal Tutees.  Key areas of the Job description: • Undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in the Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies, • The supervision of PhD students, • The development and publication of research to the highest standard, in accordance with the aims and research strategies of the Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies, • Administrative duties as required by the Head of Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies.  Key elements of the person specification: • PhD in Lusophone Studies (completed) • Excellent publications record and potential and plans for future publications / outputs • Ability to teach Portuguese language.  The post will be held at the Strand Campus.   For an informal discussion of the post please contact Professor Catherine Boyle or Professor David Treece on Catherine.boyle@kcl.ac.uk or David.treece@kcl.ac.uk.  For an application pack please click on the following link: www.kcl.ac.uk/depsta/pertra/vacancy/external/pers_detail.php  If you have any queries please contact your Recruitment Co-ordinator at recruitmentteam7@kcl.ac.uk.  All correspondence should clearly state the job title and reference number A6-7/AAS/106/13-JE.  Closing date: 04/03/13     