Lecturer in Portuguese Studies
           Lecturer in Portuguese Studies Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies King's College London - School of Arts and Humanities  The Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies is delighted to announce a Lectureship in Portuguese Studies. Applicants should have a PhD in Portuguese studies completed or near to completion and be able to prove their potential for future research.    The successful candidate will be a member of the new Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies, made up of the prestigious departments of Spanish and Spanish American Studies, and of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies, creating one of the most significant concentrations of expertise in the area of Iberian and Lusophone studies in the UK, and bringing together an exciting range of research and teaching in the field. The successful candidate will have a record of research in any area of Portuguese literary and cultural studies and those with interdisciplinary interests are encouraged to apply. The ability to teach across key authors and time periods will be an advantage, and an interest in language teaching is essential.  S/He will be expected to teach on and contribute to the development of our BA and MA programmes and to attract PhD students. S/He will also be expected to take on academic administrative duties in the Department as required.    The start date will be 1 September 2011, or as soon as possible thereafter.  Salary: The appointment will be made, dependent on relevant qualifications and experience, within the Grade 6 scale, currently £33,193 to £39,185 per annum, inclusive of £2,323 London Allowance, per annum.   Contact Information: For an informal discussion of the post please contact Professor Catherine Boyle on 020-7848-2605 / 2205, or via email (preferred) at catherine.boyle@kcl.ac.uk. .  Further details and application packs are available on the College's website at www.kcl.ac.uk/jobs, or alternatively by emailing Human Resources at strand-recruitment@kcl.ac.uk.  All correspondence should clearly state the job title and reference number A6/AAS/257/11-TS.  Other Information: The closing date for receipt of applications is 19 May 2011. Interviews will be held on 31 May 2011.     