Six Doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellowships for 2011: Art, Space and Mobility in the Early Ages of Globalization.
           Six Doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellowships for 2011:  Art, Space and Mobility in the Early Ages of Globalization. The Mediterranean, Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent (MeCAIS) 400-1650  The Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florence (Max-Planck-Institute) is pleased to announce the start of the second year of the research program &quot,Art, Space and Mobility in the Early Ages of Globalization: The Mediterranean, Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent (MeCAIS) 400-1650&quot,, sponsored by the Getty Foundation. It offers up to six non-residential doctoral/postdoctoral fellowships, beginning Jan. 1, 2011. The project rethinks the postcolonial agenda through a study of premodern world orders and historical concepts of space and mobility with special attention to artistic objects, monuments and heritage.  The fellowship program is intended for young scholars who are working towards a Ph.D., as well as those candidates who already possess a Ph.D. (obtained no earlier than 2005). The fellowships are mainly open to archaeologists, art historians, and, in exceptional cases, to scholars of related fields like anthropology, history, philology and religious studies. The program especially welcomes applications from young scholars of Mediterranean countries and Asia. We seek projects with a broad appeal grounded in a thorough study of objects, and fellows whose interests focus on intercultural and interartistic agency, the mobility of ideas, artists and works of arts, and the creation or transformation of spaces within the chronological and topographical framework of the program. Applicants should be interested in premodern models of globalization while adopting an interdisciplinary perspective in their study of artistic objects, images and/or texts. Participants are invited to take part in the creation of a research network that will connect specialists in Western, Islamic, Byzantine, Indian, Central and East Asian art. Projects may consider one of the following questions according to the thematic focuses of the program: (Trans)formation of Topographies, Spaces of Power and Religion, Borderlines between Nature and Culture, Visual Culture and Systems of Knowledge, Transforming Artistic Languages, Making, Remaking and Exchanging: Art and its Techniques, Historiographies and Narratives.  The fellowships are non-residential. Research could primarily be conducted at the fellows' home institutions. At the same time, fellows will participate in a series of workshops in Berlin and Florence as well as in summer schools and seminars to be held in countries of the MeCAIS region. The working language is English.  Fellowships are for one year. Their amount follows international standards and varies according to the specific conditions of the applicants and their research environment.  The deadline for application is September 15, 2010. Results will be announced in early October 2010. Applicants should send a C.V., a research proposal, one substantial writing sample or a portfolio, and two letters of recommendation to:  Prof. Dr. Gerhard Wolf Director Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz - Max-Planck-Institut Via Giuseppe Giusti 44 50121 Firenze Italy  The envelope should be marked &quot,Art Space and Mobility&quot,. Applications by e-mail are particularly welcome, these and questions concerning the program should be sent to the following address: dirwolf@khi.fi.it  The Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florence is an affirmative action equal opportunity employer and educator.      