PhD Studentship in Literature/History
           Applications are invited for a fully funded PhD fellowships in the Department of Literary Studies at Ghent University, tenable for a period of up to four years.   The successful candidate will participate in the project “From cause célèbre to microhistory: toward a history of synchronic history-writing”, which is sponsored by a grant from the FWO (Research Programme—Flanders) and which will be directed by Prof. Dr. Elizabeth Amann. The project examines an understudied historiographical genre—synchronic or episode-focused forms of history-writing—which it will trace from the causes célèbres of the eighteenth century through the emergence of microhistory in the twentieth. Although now largely forgotten, the 18th- and 19th-century recueils des causes célèbres—compilations of crimes, trials and other strange-but-true stories—were one of the most popular and widely read genres on the literary marketplace of the day. This project will examine how this type of history-writing evolved and how it influenced (and was influenced by) other forms and genres. Students with an interest in history, literature or historiography/metahistory are encouraged to apply.  Candidates should have: • a Master’s degree or equivalent qualification in a relevant discipline, such as English, French, German, Comparative Literature or History (candidates near to completion may also submit applications, indicating the expected date of the degree) • an outstanding academic record • aptitude for original, independent, and creative work • excellent writing and speaking skills in English • reading knowledge of French • reading knowledge of German would be considered a plus.  Conditions of employment: • The position must begin before January 1, 2014. • The applicant will be based at Ghent University (Belgium). • The net salary will be approximately 1800 EUR per month, gradually rising to approximately 2000 EUR per month in the fourth year. • The fellow will complete the doctoral training programme (http://www.ugent.be/doctoralschools/en/students/doctoraltrainingprogramme.htm) offered by the Doctoral School of Arts, Humanities and Law (http://www.ugent.be/doctoralschools/en/ahl/). • The fellow will be given a personal computer and office space and will benefit from the advice of a guidance committee made up of experts in the field.  The Department of Literary Studies at UGent (http://tinyurl.com/d4c34nb) is a vibrant community of 168 people (including some 50 fully funded PhD-students and 20 postdocs) specialising in nine languages as well as General and Comparative Literature. Ghent is an attractive medieval town, with a strong economic base and lively cultural scene. Just 30 minutes by train from Brussels, two hours from Paris and Amsterdam and two and a half hours from London, it is moreover ideally situated at the heart of European intellectual life. Ghent University is committed to internationalization and welcomes applications from foreign students. Knowledge of Dutch is not necessary to apply.  Applications should include: • a cover letter (in English), in which you specify why you are interested in the project and why you consider yourself a suitable candidate • a current CV • transcripts of your qualifications to date (degrees and grade lists) • a writing sample (excerpt from your Master’s thesis, article, etc.) • names and full contact details of two referees  The application deadline is February 28, 2013 or until a suitable candidate is found.  Further information about the project and/or position can be obtained from prof. dr. Elizabeth Amann (elizabeth.amann@ugent.be).  Applications should be submitted as PDF files via email to: elizabeth.amann@ugent.be.      