Lecturer in French Studies
           Lecturer in French Studies University of Sheffield - Department of French  School of Modern Languages and Linguistics  Faculty of Arts and Humanities  Job Reference Number: UOS003882     Salary: Grade 8 £37,012 - £44,166 per annum.  Potential to progress to £49,689 per annum through sustained exceptional contribution.  Closing Date: 16 February 2012  Summary: The School of Modern Languages and Linguistics wishes to recruit a Lecturer in French Studies in any area of the discipline with effect from September 2012. Applications in the areas of twentieth-century French or Francophone literature and society, and in French linguistics, are particularly welcome.   The Department of French has an excellent reputation for the quality and innovation of its teaching and research. We ranked second nationally in the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise, and in the 2011 National Student Survey, students rated us among the top five French departments in the UK.  Staff within the department have a wide range of teaching and research interests ranging from medieval studies through to contemporary visual culture.  The post-holder will teach a range of modules at undergraduate and postgraduate level, supervise PhD students, engage in high quality research, undertake administrative duties and contribute fully to the life of the Department and the School.  Successful applicants will have proven skills and experience in a majority of the above areas with a record of published work appropriate to their career stage. Candidates should have (or be near to completion of) a PhD in a relevant subject area (or have equivalent experience).You will be committed to high quality teaching, including the teaching of French language, and to excellence in research.   The University of Sheffield has been named UK University of the Year in the 2011 Times Higher Education Awards. Beating five other shortlisted universities, the University was rewarded for having a strategy &quot,based on its values and rooted in its founding principles&quot,, as well as on its exceptional performance in research, teaching, access, business performance, and involvement in the local community.  www.sheffield.ac.uk/jobs      Hartmut Duppel     