Postdoctoral Research Associate in Italian Studies
           University of Cambridge Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages Department of Italian  Postdoctoral Research Associate in Italian Studies (Conduct Literature for and about Women in Italy 1470-1900) Limit of Tenure applies*  Applications are invited for the post of Postdoctoral Research Associate (RA) in Italian Studies, with a specialization and/or a demonstrated interest in one or more of the following fields: Conduct Literature, Women's History, History of Ideas). The post arises in relation to a new research project entitled 'Conduct Literature for and about Women in Italy, 1470-1900: Prescribing and Describing Life', co-funded by the Leverhulme Trust, the Isaac Newton Trust and the Department of Italian. The RA will be expected to engage in research in areas relating to this project alongside its Principal Investigator, Dr Helena Sanson. He/she will also be expected to contribute a limited amount of teaching and examining within the Italian Department at Cambridge, as specified in the further particulars.  The RA will be required to hold a PhD (obtained or expected to be obtained very shortly) with a specialization, or a demonstrated interest in one or more of the fields indicated above and in any part of the period 1470-1900. Peer-reviewed research publications or evidence of forthcoming publications on a relevant topic will be an advantage. He/she will have a very strong research profile, with the ability to make an outstanding contribution to the Department. He/she will have a native or excellent non-native command of both Italian and English, spoken and written.  Applications should include: a 500-word description of a proposed research plan within the terms of the project (see the further particulars), a covering letter, a detailed curriculum vitae, an account of your research interests to-date, a list of publications, and the names and contact details of two referees who are familiar with your work. You are also asked to submit up to two recent article-length examples of your work for consideration by the Committee.  Completed applications, including Parts I and III of a CHRIS 6 form (available at www.admin.cam.ac.uk/offices/hr/forms/chris6), should be sent preferably by email to the Secretary to the Appointments Committee at jobs@mml.cam.ac.uk or by post to the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages, Sidgwick Avenue, Cambridge CB3 9DA by the closing date. Applicants are requested to ask their referees to write/email directly by the same date.  *Due to limitations of external funds, salary for this pensionable post will be in the range of £27,578 to £29,249. The appointment will run from 1 October 2012 for eighteen months, and is subject to satisfactory completion of a probationary period of six months. Further particulars may be found at: www.mml.cam.ac.uk/jobs/RAfps.pdf  You are welcome to seek further information on aspects not covered in the further particulars by contacting: Dr Helena Sanson (hls37@cam.ac.uk) or Professor Robert Gordon, Head of Department (rscg1@cam.ac.uk).  The University is committed to equality of opportunity.  Quote Reference: GM16592  Closing Date: 15 June 2012 Interview Date(s): It is hoped the interviews will be held in the week commencing 2 July 2012.     