Postdoctoral Research Fellow in French Applied Linguistics
           Postdoctoral Research Fellow in French Applied Linguistics University of Southampton - Faculty of Humanities - Modern Languages  We are seeking a postdoctoral Research Associate with a background in second language acquisition, to join a research team studying the language learning of British students of French and Spanish during residence abroad. This research project is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council, and our aims are a) to document the linguistic development of participating students before, during and after residence abroad, and b) to relate linguistic development to students' language use patterns and developing social networks while abroad. The postholder will take a lead role in all aspects of data collection, data analysis, reporting and dissemination of results, for the learners of French, and will be expected at certain times to undertake extensive fieldwork in France.  Candidates should hold a PhD in a relevant area of French linguistics/ applied linguistics/ sociolinguistics, and should possess native/ near-native competence in French. The project will be collecting both quantitative and qualitative data, and will be creating and analysing a new learner corpus using the CHILDES software suite. Knowledge of both quantitative and qualitative research techniques is highly desirable, as are strong IT skills.  £27,428 per annum pro rata  This is a fixed term full time post lasting 25 months, with a start date of 1 August 2011. Informal enquiries should be made to Professor Ros Mitchell (email: R.F.Mitchell@soton.ac.uk) Modern Languages, University of Southampton, but applications are only accepted via the online application process outlined below.  Please visit www.jobs.soton.ac.uk and apply on-line, or call 023 8059 2750. Your completed application should include (i) letter of application, (ii) the application form, (iii) your Curriculum Vitae, (iv) the names and addresses of two referees. (Our online application process will prompt you to include all the above). The closing date for applications is 10th May 2011 at 12.00 noon. Please quote reference number 5505-11-J on all correspondence.     