Postdoctoral Research Associate Position: "Psycholinguistics" (TV-L E13, full time)
           Carl von Ossietzky Universität Oldenburg Cluster of Excellence  The Faculties of Mathematics and Sciences and of Medicine and Health Sciences of the University of Oldenburg are seeking to fill as soon as possible the following Postdoctoral Research Associate Position within the cluster of excellence &quot,Hearing4all&quot, (www.hearing4all.de, &quot,Oldenburg/Hannover&quot,).  &quot,Psycholinguistics&quot, (TV-L E13, full time) (role of sentence complexity and grammar in understanding speech in different populations and under different conditions (i.e. silence, noise))  The position is available from 1 November 2012, for initially 2 years, with prospect for continuation for up to 3 more years. The position is suitable for part-time work.  The successful candidates are expected to actively contribute to the cluster of excellence &quot,Hearing4all&quot, and to the further structured research programmes within the Centre of Excellence for Hearing Research, i.e. the collaborative research centre &quot,The Active Auditory System&quot, (SFB/TRR31), the research unit &quot,Individualized Hearing Acoustics&quot,, the national centre of competence for hearing technology (HörTech) and the PhD programs &quot,Function and Pathophysiology of the Auditory System&quot, and &quot,Signals and Cognition&quot,.  A successful candidate is expected to have an academic university degree, should be able to perform excellent scientific work usually demonstrated by international publications and should be experienced in at least one of the respective research areas listed above. She/He should be qualified for assuming an important research function within the task groups (TG) of the cluster of excellence (c.f., www.hearing4all.de for further details about the positions). Please indicate in your application for which position(s) you apply.  The University of Oldenburg strives to increase the proportion of women in science, so we especially encourage female candidates to apply. Handicapped applicants will be given preference if equally qualified.  Application by e-mail is preferred. The application should include a CV, a list of publications and copies of certificates of academic grades.  Please send your application at the latest by October 31st, 2012 to Prof. Dr. Dr. Birger Kollmeier Carl von Ossietzky Universität Oldenburg Fakultät V, Exzellenzcluster &quot,Hearing4all&quot, 26111 Oldenburg  E-Mail: Karin.Klink@uni-oldenburg.de www.hearing4all.de 