Professor (tenure track) in the field of Spanish linguistics
           The Faculty of Arts &amp, Philosophy, Ghent University, invites applications for the full-time position of professor in the rank of Lecturer (Tenure Track system) in the Department of Linguistics, taking effect on October 1, 2012. Responsibilities will include academic teaching, research, and service in the field of Spanish linguistics. This full-time position is a tenure-track appointment for a period of five years, at the end of which a tenure decision will be taken, depending on an overall evaluation.  Profile - on the day of application, candidates are required to hold a PhD with a doctoral thesis in the field mentioned (or equivalent thereof), - candidates are required to have at least two years of postdoctoral experience on October 1, 2012, - candidates are required to have research experience in the field of Spanish linguistics, as is evident from contributions to international conferences and recent publications in international books and/or peer-reviewed journals, - candidates are required to possess an excellent oral and written knowledge of Spanish, - candidates are required to possess the necessary didactic, organizational and communicative skills for teaching Spanish linguistics and Spanish Language Proficiency in an academic context, - an international ‘profile’ gained, for instance, through participation in research programmes at institutions other than one’s own, will be considered an asset. - Candidates are required to show their willingness to learn Dutch (insofar as they do not speak this language on the day of application).  Method of application The candidates are required to submit: - an outline (max. 1500 words) explaining their views on research, teaching and administrative duties in relation to this vacancy, - the required transcripts (copies of degrees).  Selection procedure: - candidates will be short-listed on the basis of their curriculum vitae, bibliography, and the outline, - short-listed applicants will be invited for an interview and required to present a short class (of twenty minutes), on the basis of which the final selection will be made.  For further information about this vacancy, applicants are welcome to contact Professor Renata Enghels, (tel: +32 (0)9 264 40 50 and Renata.Enghels@UGent.be) and/or Professor Stef Slembrouck, Head of Department (tel: +32 (0)9 264 37 94 and email: Stef.Slembrouck@ugent.be).  Applications should be sent in duplicate, and by registered mail to: the Rector of Ghent University Rectoraat Sint-Pietersnieuwstraat 25 B-9000 Ghent  The standard application forms for Autonomous Academic Staff (“ZAP”) should be used, with required transcripts (copies of degrees) attached. Applications must be sent no later than March 2nd, 2012. The application forms for Autonomous Academic Staff (“ZAP”) can be downloaded from the internet : URL: www.ugent.be/nl/werken/aanwerving/formulieren/zap/formulier.doc/view 