Senior lecturer in sociolinguistics
           University of Luxembourg  The University of Luxembourg invites applications for the following vacancy in its Faculty of Language and Literature, Humanities, Arts and Education Senior lecturer in sociolinguistics (M/F) Ref : F3-120002 Full time Employee status  Activities Within the Laboratoire de linguistique et de littératures luxembourgeoises of the Research Unit IPSE the senior lecturer will conduct independent research in the field of the sociolinguistics of the Luxembourgish society.  These comprise inter alia: - studies on the role and character of the Luxembourgish language in its multilingual setting (e.g. research in language attitudes, language usage), - historical sociolinguistics, - luxembourgish in the New Media, luxembourgish in educational contexts.  The research results will be published in international scientific journals and volumes with peer-review. Besides the research in the aforementioned laboratory, the senior lecturer will participate actively in interdisciplinary research projects of IPSE and in the implementation of the research axis “Luxembourg studies” and will also contribute to the research priority “Education and Learning in Multilingual and  Multicultural Contexts” with regards to research on the role of the development of the Luxembourgish language within the multilingual context of Luxembourg.  The senior lecturer will teach mainly in: - the Master en Langues, Cultures et Médias: Lëtzebuerger Studien - the Formation continue Lëtzebuerger Sprooch a Kultur as well as sporadically in - the Bachelor en Cultures Européennes  Profile: - University studies and PhD in sociolinguistics - at least 3 years’ experience as a PostDoc in sociolinguistic projects  Experience: - publications in internationally renowned journals and scientific volumes, - teaching in multilingual university contexts (on Bachelor and Masters level), - supporting study programmes, - contributing to and supporting research projects and in organising conferences.  Skills: - ability to work in a team  Language: - very good command of at least 2 of the following languages: German/French/English, - very good knowledge (oral and written), or willingness to acquire Luxembourgish is required.  For further information please contact: Prof. Dr. Christian Schulz Head of the Research Unit IPSE Tel. (+352) 46 66 44 6327  The University of Luxembourg is an equal opportunity employer. All applications will be treated in strict confidence. As part of the application process specifically for academic positions, you are NOT obliged to complete the online application form below (“apply online”). If you do so, this should only be done in addition to the procedure described above, and it will not have any impact of the handling of your application.  Applications Interested candidates are asked to send a hard copy until March 28th, 2012 only by postal mail of their full application (in French, German or English) mentioning the job opening reference number and including the following documents: - cover letter - curriculum vitae - copies of diplomas - list of publications - copies of recent publications relevant for the field in question - list of given courses.  to:  Professor Michel Margue Dean of the Faculty of Language and Literature, Humanities, Arts and Education (FLSHASE), University of Luxembourg Campus Walferdange BP. 2 L - 7201 Walferdange Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg     