Lecturer in French Studies & Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/ Reader in French Studies
           Lecturer in French Studies &amp, Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/ Reader in French Studies University of Sheffield - Department of French School of Modern Languages and Linguistics  Job Reference Number: UOS002787 Faculty:  Faculty of Arts and Humanities Salary: Lecturer:  Grade 8 £36,862 to £44,016 per annum, with potential to progress to £49,539 Senior Lecturer/Reader:  Grade 9 £46,696 to £52,556 per annum, with potential to progress to £60,928 Closing Date: 8 July 2011  Summary:  This is an ideal opportunity for a scholar with an outstanding publication record (or ability to develop an outstanding research record) and excellent teaching ability to join one of the top French Departments in the United Kingdom. You will contribute to the Department's internationally recognised research portfolio, and to teaching both undergraduates and postgraduates.  The Department of French has an excellent reputation for the quality and innovation of its teaching and research. Staff within the department have a wide range of teaching and research interests ranging from medieval studies through to contemporary visual culture.  Applications for these positions are invited from candidates with research interests in any area of the French Studies discipline.The post-holders will teach a range of modules at undergraduate and postgraduate level, supervise PhD students, engage in high quality research activity, undertake administrative duties and contribute fully to the life of the Department and the School at a level commensurate with their grade.  Successful applicants will have proven skills and experience in all the above areas with a strong record of published work appropriate to their career stage. They will be committed to high quality teaching, including the teaching of French language, and to excellence in research.   Two positions are available, the level of appointment to these positions will depend on the candidates' depth of experience in teaching and their record in publication and grant capture.  The positions are available from September 2011 or as soon as possible thereafter.  To apply for this job please click here and search for the job using the reference number provided or to view current vacancies and apply online please go to: www.sheffield.ac.uk/jobs.      Hartmut Duppel     