Lecturer in French
           Lecturer in French University of Hull - Modern Languages  Reference Number FA0080  Campus: Hull Faculty / Area: Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Staff: Group Academic Salary range: £30,870 - £35,789 pa Closing date: 22 August 2011  Job Details: The Department wishes to appoint a full-time lecturer in French language and culture to a fixed term post from 1 September 2011 until 30th June 2012 in order to cover a staff sabbatical absence. The successful applicant will be expected to teach French across the range of courses offered within the French section of the department, from beginners to degree level standard. S/he will have native or near-native competence in French. Duties will include teaching, marking, examining and invigilation, supervising undergraduate students and appropriate administrative duties.  Candidates will need a doctorate completed or near to completion, and have experience of teaching both French language and French culture to degree level. The ability to contribute to the teaching of translation studies within the department would be essential to the post, as would the ability to contribute to cross disciplinary modules within the Department of Modern Languages. This is an excellent opportunity for an enthusiastic early career individual with an interest in both teaching and research.  For further information about the department please see www.hull.ac.uk/languages  For informal enquiries, contact Dr Marina Mozzon-McPherson, Head of Modern Languages, m.mozzon-mcpherson@hull.ac.uk , tel: 01482 465837  PLEASE NOTE: INTERVIEWS ARE EXPECTED TO BE 1 SEPTEMBER 2011 AND IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT THE SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATE IS ABLE TO COMMENCE IN POST BY 26TH SEPTEMBER 2011.  Requirements: Applications for this post must be made using an online application form, supplemented by a single attached document containing your list of publications, if appropriate. Unfortunately we are unable to accept any other form of application or additional documentation.     