Post-doctoral Fellows for positions from one to six months
           The Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, Berlin (Max Planck Research Group on Modern Geometry and the Concept of Space, Director: Vincenzo De Risi) seeks up to three outstanding  Post-doctoral Fellows for positions from one to six months  in the academic year 2011-2012 (with the possibility to begin as soon as Summer 2011).  The Research Group is also accepting proposals for non-funded visiting positions.  See the details at www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/PDF/VisitingFellowships.pdf  Research projects should concern the history of geometry, the history of mathematical epistemology or the history of the concept of space in the Modern Age. Possible topics include: - The history of elementary geometry and Euclid’s Elements. - The theory of perspective and the beginnings of projective geometry. - The philosophy of mathematics and the conception of space from Leibniz to Kant. - Optics, the theory of vision and the theory of pictorial representation in the Modern Age. - The concept of space in 18th century mechanics.  A fuller description of the topics and aims of the Research Group can be found here: www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/MRGdeRisi  The Max Planck Institute for the History of Science is an international and interdisciplinary research institute. The colloquium language is English, it is expected that candidates will be able to present their own work and discuss that of others fluently in that language. Applications may however be submitted in German, English, French, or Italian.  Candidates should hold a doctorate at the time the position begins since no more than five years, and show evidence of scholarly promise in the form of publications or other achievements. The position is primarily devoted to research, with no teaching and minimal administrative duties. Fellows are expected to take part to the cultural and scientific life of the Institute, to advance their own research project, and to actively contribute to the Group researches.  The monthly stipend for is between 1900 and 2300 € (fellows from abroad). Please address specific questions to Ms. Claudia Paaß (Head of Administration): paass@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de .  Candidates are requested to submit a curriculum vitae (including list of publications), a research proposal on a topic related to the project (with a time schedule), a sample writing representative of the candidate’s work (such as a chapter of the doctoral dissertation or a scientific article), and names and addresses (preferably including email) of two referees who have already been contacted by the applicant to assure their willingness to submit letters of presentation if requested, to  Max-Planck-Institut für Wissenschaftsgeschichte Abt. Personal/PD De Risi Boltzmannstraße 22, 14195 Berlin, Germany  by February 14, 2011  (Electronic submission is also possible to Ms. Claudia Paaß: paass@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de).  For questions concerning the research project, please contact Dr. Vincenzo De Risi, vderisi@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de, for administrative questions concerning the position and the Institute, please contact Mr. Jochen Schneider, jsr@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de, Research Coordinator. Scholars of all nationalities are welcome to apply, applications from women are especially welcomed. The Max Planck Society is committed to promoting more handicapped individuals and encourages them to apply.  E-Mail: paass@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/MRGdeRisi 