Two Postdoc Positions in African Studies
           University of Bayreuth - DFG - BIGSAS  Two Postdoc Positions in African Studies   The Bayreuth International Graduate School of African Studies (BIGSAS) funded by the German Research Foundation as part of the Excellence Initiative offers two post-doctoral fellowship positions for two years starting November 1, 2010. The positions are designed to provide intensive training and mentoring for research leadership and faculty service. The salary for the fellowships is E13 TV-L.  JOB PROFILE AND EXPECTATIONS The fellow will be expected to accomplish the following:  - Develop an independent and interdisciplinary research project in the field of African Studies as represented within BIGSAS and submit a full proposal for research funding.  - Lead a Working Group with doctoral students of BIGSAS, attend BIGSAS colloquia and senior scholar meetings and offer one course per term.  - Provide assistance within BIGSAS activities, including ongoing Graduate School Research Areas.  - Conform to standards of responsible conduct in research and comply with all applicable University and departmental policies and procedures.  QUALIFICATIONS The Postdoctoral Appointee will hold a PhD or equivalent doctorate (e. g. ScD, MD, PsyD). Candidates with non-German degrees may be required to provide proof of degree equivalency. Linguistic skills/competences: fluent English, advanced oral skills in German are welcome.  DEADLINE: September 30, 2010.  APPLICATION: Full CV and an outline of the envisaged research project.  In case of equal suitability and qualification, physically challenged applicants will be given preference. The University of Bayreuth is an equal opportunity employer and as such particularly welcomes applications from women.  The University of Bayreuth and BIGSAS provide for a family friendly environment.  Contact: Bayreuth International Graduate School of African Studies - BIGSAS Dymitr Ibriszimow, Dean - Erdmute Alber, Vice Dean - Herbert Popp, Vice Dean University of Bayreuth D-95440 Bayreuth  Telefon: +49 921-55 5101 Telefax: +49 921-55 4607  E-Mail: bigsas@uni-bayreuth.de      