Vier Mercator Research Group Juniorprofessuren (W1) “Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge: Production and Transfer”
           MRG &quot,Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge&quot,   Ruhr University Bochum and Stiftung Mercator announce the establishment of the Mercator Research Group “Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge: Production and Transfer”.   Four young professors will be appointed and given the opportunity to form an independent research team. We invite applications of post-doctoral researchers for the following professorship (W1) positions:  Professorship 1: History of Life Sciences and Philosophical Anthropology  (“Geschichte der Wissenschaften des Lebens und Philosophische Anthropologie”)   Professorship 2: Literature and Anthropological Knowledge (“Literatur und anthropologisches Wissen”)  Professorship 3: Media and Anthropological Knowledge (“Medien und anthropologisches Wissen”)  Professorship 4: Cultural Psychology and Anthropological Knowledge  (“Kulturpsychologie und anthropologisches Wissen”)   We are looking for young scholars at an early stage of their career with an excellent potential for independent research. A working knowledge of German is essential.  We offer:  full independence  salary at W1-professorship level for 6 years  academic infrastructure, equipment and excellent funding, including  a budget to invite senior/emeritus scientists as mentors and guest researchers  a budget for scholarships to recruit a group of doctoral students  secretarial assistance  an inspiring research environment including Philosophy and History of Science, Literary Studies, Media Studies and Cultural Psychology  To apply please send a letter of application describing your background and research interests, a detailed curriculum vitae, and a list of publications electronically by  15 June 2009  to rektor@rub.de  (subject: “Spaces of Anthropological Knowledge”)   Applications can be submitted in English or German and should also include the names, addresses and contact details of three academic referees who are familiar with the applicant's work.  Selected participants will be invited to participate in a scientific colloquium in autumn 2009.  Ruhr University Bochum is committed to diversity in its staff, faculty, and student body. Applications from all disciplines in the social science and humanities are encouraged. Since we seek to increase the participation of women in areas in which they are currently underrepresented, we explicitly encourage women to apply. Individuals with disabilities will be favored in case of equal qualifications among competing candidates.   Further questions?  General questions concerning the application procedure can be addressed to Dr. Manfred Buschmeier (Office for Research and Young Researchers), manfred.buschmeier@uv.rub.de, +49 (0)234/32-23923.   Specific questions about the Research Units should be addressed to directly to  Unit 1  Prof Dr Helmut Pulte +49(0)234/32-22726  helmut.pulte@rub.de   Prof Dr Irmgard Müller +49(0)234/32-23394 irmgard.mueller@rub.de   Unit 2   Prof Dr Rudolf Behrens +49(0)234/32-22631 rudolf.behrens@rub.de  Prof Dr Carsten Zelle +49(0)234/32-25108 carsten.zelle@rub.de       Unit 3 Prof Dr Astrid Deuber-Mankowsky +49(0)234/32-25071 astrid.deuber-mankowsky@rub.de   Unit 4 Prof Dr Jürgen Straub +49(0)234/32-25171 juergen.straub@rub.de   Our gender equality policy:   Ruhr University Bochum is committed to diversity in its staff, faculty, and student body. Applications from all disciplines in the social science and humanities are encouraged. Since we seek to increase the participation of women in areas in which they are currently underrepresented, we explicitly encourage women to apply. Individuals with disabilities will be favored in case of equal qualifications among competing candidates.      