Workshop: Politics of Interpretation: (Con)Text and Power
           Workshop in Kooperation des Instituts für Romanistik der Universität Potsdam (DFG-Emmy Noether-Gruppe &quot,Philologie und Rassismus im 19. Jh.&quot,) und der School of English, the University of Hong Kong.  Themes and Questions Knowledge is always bound to the epistemic conditions of its generation. These conditions are implicated in social, political, economic and historico-cultural processes and speak to issues of power and authority. They are central to the interpretation and critical analysis of complex cultural articulations, such as textuality and its linguistic reflections. Contextualizing knowledge is a crucial paradigm for postmodern humanities. Thus the success of a transcultural “future philology” – to borrow this term from Sheldon Pollock –, which consistently reflects on its own epistemological premises, depends on the ability to reevaluate and detect the impact of predetermined patterns shaping its focuses, methods and assertions.  Deconstructivism, discourse analysis, communication theory, and postcolonial studies offer an array of theoretical tools. They allow a critical approach to dynamics that both hide and exploit epistemological structures through strategies of decontextualisation and the reconceptualization of knowledge. Nevertheless, the question remains as to the extent to which structures of empowerment and asymmetries between and within philological praxis and discourses still compromise the transfer of information in what is called our “globalized world” .  The primary aim of this workshop is to facilitate intellectual exchange between research students from the two institutions, and promote discussion of diverse intellectual frameworks among academic staff and students. Papers take the form of the presentation of ideas from a key thinker or theorist (or an encounter between two theorists), and an explanation of why that theorist is important for ongoing research.  Tagungsort:  Hong Kong University, School of English  Programme Thursday, June 14 Room MB113G  930-1000 Otto Heim (Head of the School)  Christopher M. Hutton, Markus Messling, Adrian Pablé Welcome  Introduction, opening discussion  1000-1045 Philipp Krämer (University of Potsdam) The universal exception. Creoleness and creolization in language, culture, and text  1115-1200 Adrian Pablé (Hong Kong University) Deconstructing Rortian constructivism: against the ubiquity of language  1200-1245 Jérémie Wenger (University of Oxford) Destitution of language: Alain Badiou on Wittgenstein  1245-1330 Zhou Feifei (Hong Kong University) Garfinkel’s take on sociology: how is ‘social order’ produced and repaired?  1500 Professor Pheng Cheah (University of California, Berkeley) Lecture-cum-Seminar: “Of Other Worlds to Come”  Friday, June 15 Room MB113G  915-1000 Christopher M. Hutton, Markus Messling Bruno Latour’s modernity. On (a)symmetrical anthropology and the language paradigm / Latour hanging out with the law and its objects  1000-1045 Zhuang Ruihan (Hong Kong University) When Evolution Theory Meets Marxism: Vygotsky's Psychology of Abstraction in Postwar Russia  1115-1200 Noel Christe (Hong Kong University) Discrepant norms: culture, ecology and indeterminacy in Victor Turner's anthropology of meaning  1245-1330 Markus Lenz (University of Potsdam) Umberto Eco’s epistemological paradox: Cultural references between bias and universal knowledge  1430-1515 Kimberly Tao Wei Yi (Hong Kong University) Structuring Foucault's Monstrousness in Transgendered People through Legal Classification  1515-1600 Wayne Cristaudo (Hong Kong University) Religion, Redemption, and Revolution: The New Speech Thinking of Franz Rosenweig and Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy  1630-1730 Concluding discussion     