Visiting Fellowship in French History 2011-12
           The Centre for French History and Culture of the University of St Andrews (UK) invites applications for a Sabbatical Visiting Fellowship, to be taken up during either semester of the academic year 2011-2012. It is envisaged the Fellowship will last 2-3 months (by negotiation).  The Fellowship is open to any academic across the world in a permanent or tenure-track faculty post with research interests in any period of French history or French colonial history - prospective applicants who are unsure whether they qualify should email the Director (see below).  Tenure of the Fellowship might particularly suit academics in the later stages of writing up a substantial piece of research. The Fellowship covers the cost of transportation to and from St Andrews from the holder’s normal place of work, together with a substantial negotiable subsidy towards accommodation (or a university flat) while the holder is resident in St Andrews. The Fellowship carries with it no teaching duties, though the Fellow is expected to take part in the normal seminar life of the Centre and the School of History during his or her stay in St Andrews. The Fellow will have full borrowing rights in the university and departmental libraries.  To apply please send an application consisting of:  (1) a CV (no more than 4 pages) (2) a list of publications (3) a programme of research (no more than 1000 words) (4) the names and addresses of two referees we might choose to approach  to the Director of the Centre Dr Guy Rowlands at gr30@st-andrews.ac.uk  If there is anything else you would like to draw to our attention to help your application, please mention it in a covering email.  The closing date for applications is 1pm (GMT) on 17th December 2010. The result of the competition will be communicated to applicants in the second half of January 2011.  The activities of the Centre for French History and Culture, and its staff, can be viewed on its website: www.st-andrews.ac.uk/history/frenchcentre/ 