Teaching Fellowship in Spanish
           Teaching Fellowship in Spanish (2 Year contract) Faculty of Humanities &amp, Social Sciences School of Applied language and Intercultural Studies (SALIS)  Introduction: The School of Applied Language and Intercultural Studies (SALIS) is part of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at Dublin City University. It has an international staff and student body, comprising 35 full-time lecturers and over 550 full-time students, as well as part-time staff and students. SALIS is a dynamic School which provides a multilingual and multicultural environment in which to pursue undergraduate and postgraduate study and research. It currently offers the following taught programmes:      BA in Applied Language and Intercultural Studies     BA in Languages for International Communication (English Studies)     BA in International Business and Languages (with the DCU Business School)     MA in Intercultural Studies     MA in Translation Studies     MA in Comparative Literature     MA in Sexuality Studies     International Foundation Certificate  Languages currently taught in SALIS are French, German, Spanish, Japanese, Chinese, Irish, and English for Speakers of Other Languages.  The School's ethos is interdisciplinary and applied -unlike traditional Irish universities, all seven languages are housed within the one School, encouraging intercultural dialogue between staff and students of different sections, and students are encouraged to engage in comparative studies across language boundaries. Modules in Intercultural Studies and Translation Studies draw on insights across all language/cultures offered in the school, with general theory being taught through English.  Research in SALIS covers a broad range of areas across Language Studies, Comparative Literature, Translation and Textual Studies and Intercultural Studies. The School supports staff to engage in research activities, and interdisciplinary collaborations between colleagues across disciplines and faculties are strongly encouraged.  Teaching Fellowship in Spanish:  The School of Applied Language and Intercultural Studies (SALIS) seeks to appoint a suitably qualified person to undertake the development of Spanish language teaching in the School, on a 2-year Teaching Fellowship contract.  Applicants for this post must have a B.A or M.A qualification, native speaker proficiency in Spanish language and at least 3 years experience of teaching Spanish language at university level in Ireland. The successful candidate will be expected to provide leadership in developing the teaching of Spanish language within the School, and should therefore have a record of both excellence in language teaching and expertise in new language teaching methods, in particular the use of technology and blended learning approaches.  Spanish is taught on all undergraduate programmes in SALIS and is a highly popular language among students. Spanish language is taught on the B.A. in Applied Language and Intercultural Studies (ALIS), the B.A in Contemporary Culture and Society (BACCS), the B.A in Business International (DCUBS), and as an option on a variety of other undergraduate programmes throughout the university.  An integral part of SALIS undergraduate degree programmes is that students spend Year 3 studying abroad to develop their linguistic skills and intercultural competence. The successful candidate may also be expected to assist in coordinating and monitoring students' Year Abroad experience at Spanish speaking partner institutions, as well as taking a lead in the development of new technologies and blended approaches in Spanish language teaching in SALIS.  The successful candidate will be expected to make an important contribution to the teaching profile of the School, as well as to undertake significant administrative responsibilities. In accordance with the multilingual nature of the School and its interdisciplinary ethos, the successful candidate will also be expected to collaborate with colleagues not only in Spanish, but in other languages and areas on interdisciplinary projects of mutual interest.  Duties include:  - Play a key leadership role in the development of Spanish language teaching in SALIS, through collaboration with colleagues within DCU and other universities - Creatively promote the marketing of SALIS programmes involving Spanish language /culture - Ensure that the teaching methodology used in Spanish is informed by new language teaching developments, especially the use of new technologies and blended learning approaches. - Assist in administration and supervision of Year3 Study Abroad in Spanish speaking universities- e.g. mentor students, coordinate with universities, visit students abroad - Develop national and international collaboration and exchange links in Spanish speaking countries - Develop strong links with appropriate professional organisations, within Ireland and Internationally - Explore the potential for interdisciplinary research/teaching projects with colleagues, especially in the area of language teaching - Participate actively in all SALIS activities and contribute to the development of the School's profile in teaching  Starting date: 1st September 2011  Informal Enquiries to: Dr Aileen Pearson-Evans, Head of School of Applied Language &amp, Intercultural Studies (SALIS) E-mail: aileen.pearson-evans@dcu.ie Tel: +353 (0)1 700 5193  Further Information: More information on the School, including specific areas of research expertise and details of taught programmes, may be found at: www.dcu.ie/salis  Salary Scale: Teaching fellowship: €41,502 - €51,724  Closing Date: 4th July 2011  Application forms are available from: www.dcu.ie/vacancies/current.shtml Human Resources Department Dublin City University, Dublin 9. Tel: +353 (0)1 700 5149 Fax: +353 (0)1 700 5500 E-mail: hr.applications@dcu.ie       Hartmut Duppel     