Teaching Associate in French - Fixed term
           Teaching Associate in French - Fixed term University of Nottingham - School of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies, Department of French and Francophone Studies  £27,578 - £35,938 per annum, depending on skills and experience. Salary progression beyond this scale is subject to performance.  Applications are invited for the above post from candidates specialising in any area of French Studies. The person appointed will be expected to participate in language teaching and first-year teaching, and to contribute specialist modules in the second and final years of the undergraduate course. There may in addition be a small amount of MA teaching.  The Department of French and Francophone Studies is part of the School of Cultures, Languages and Area Studies. It pursues teaching and research across a broad spectrum of French Studies from the Middle Ages to the present day. There is a thriving postgraduate community, with students working across the range of French Studies. The Department edits its own journal, Nottingham French Studies, founded in 1961 and published by Edinburgh University Press. Applications for undergraduate places are strong, with up to 250 applicants being admitted annually to read French on various honours degree programmes.  Candidates should hold a PhD, in French Studies or equivalent, and have appropriate experience of teaching at university level.  This full-time post will be offered on a fixed-term contract from 3 September 2012 until 28 June 2013.  Informal enquiries may be addressed to Professor Christopher Johnson, tel: 0115 951 4997 or Email: christopher.johnson@nottingham.ac.uk. Please note that applications sent directly to this email address will not be accepted.  For more details and/or to apply on-line please access: www.nottingham.ac.uk/Jobs/CurrentVacancies/ref/CE07126Ax1. If you are unable to apply on-line please contact the Human Resources Department, tel: 0115 846 6172.   Please quote ref. CE/07126Ax1.   Closing date: 2 May 2012  This is a re-advertisement: applications are welcome from previous candidates.  For all our vacancies and more about working at the University of Nottingham see: jobs.nottingham.ac.uk.     